Background

Following the outbreak of war in Ukraine and the resulting refugee crisis, Ireland’s research funders have been engaging collaboratively on developments, in particular relating to how researchers from Ukraine who are arriving in Ireland due to the war can be supported by the Irish research system.

The Irish Research Council has made a provision to assist Ukrainian researchers supported by the government under the Temporary Protection Directive (TPD). Irish Research Council-funded principal investigators (PIs) on current or forthcoming PI-level awards will be able to apply to the IRC for funding to add an eligible individual to the project where the individual’s research interests are aligned with those of the project. Eligible IRC-funded PIs can apply to add displaced researchers and research-related technical staff across the research career framework, including those that were conducting research master’s or PhD-level training, postdoctoral fellows and more experienced investigators, to their awards.

This scheme will adopt a rolling deadline, a shortened application form and an expedited review process. It seeks to build on and complement other systems and supports introduced by Irish Government departments and agencies.

What we offer

Awards can have a maximum duration of 12 months. The budget requested and the award duration must reflect the scale and nature of the proposed research. Activities funded should relate, and add value to, the original award objectives. Funding must be associated with clearly identified individuals and activities. Eligible costs include:

    Salaries, stipends and student fees
    Materials and consumables up to a total of €2,000 per researcher
    A contribution of €1,000 towards the purchase of a computer
    Overheads at 25% of total direct costs (excludes student fees and equipment costs)

How to apply

Please see the call document for further information about how to apply to this scheme. All applications must be submitted by the research office of the host institution via email to ukrainianresearchers@research.ie.

Key dates

The call opens on 20 June 2022. Applications can be submitted at any point and will be reviewed in real time. The call will remain open for the foreseeable future subject to review of the evolving situation in Ukraine.