
Annex B) Science Technology Engineering & Mathematics Disciplines
Primary Area: Biological Sciences A
Disciplines Other Research Areas
Agricultural Biotechnology
including but not limited to: Agricultural Biotechnology
Diagnostics (incl. Biosensors); Agricultural Marine
Biotechnology; Agricultural Molecular Engineering of
Nucleic Acids and Proteins; Genetically Modified
Technology; Livestock Cloning; Marker Assisted
Selection; Biomass Feedstock Production
Technologies; Biopharming.
Biology (Theoretical,
Mathematical, Thermal,
Cryobiology, Biological
Rhythm)
including but not limited to: Theoretical Biology;
Mathematical Biology; Thermal Biology; Cryobiology;
Biological Rhythm.
Environmental
Biotechnology
including but not limited to: Biodiscovery; Biological
Control; Bioremediation; Environmental Biotechnology
Diagnostics (incl. Biosensors); Environmental Marine
Biotechnology; Environmental Molecular Engineering
of Nucleic Acids and Proteins.
Evolutionary Biology
including but not limited to: Animal Systematics and
Taxonomy; Biogeography and Phytogeography;
Biological Adaptation; Ethology and Socio-biology;
Evolution of Developmental Systems; Evolutionary
Impacts of Climate Change; Host-Parasite
Interactions; Life Histories; Phylogeny and
Comparative Analysis; Plant Systematics and
Taxonomy; Speciation and Extinction.
Marine Biology,
Freshwater Biology
including but not limited to: Marine Biology,
Freshwater Biology.
Microbiology, Mycology
and Virology
including but not limited to: Bacteriology; Infectious
Agents; Microbial Ecology; Virology; Mycology.
Microbial Genetics including but not limited to: Microbial Genetics.
Plant Sciences, Botany
including but not limited to: Phycology (incl. Marine
Grasses); Plant Cell and Molecular Biology; Plant
Developmental and Reproductive Biology; Plant
Pathology; Plant Physiology; Botany.
Zoology, Ornithology,
Entomology, Behavioural
Sciences Biology
including but not limited to: Animal Behaviour; Animal
Cell and Molecular Biology; Animal Developmental
and Reproductive Biology; Animal Immunology;
Animal Neurobiology; Animal Physiological Ecology;
Animal Structure and Function; Invertebrate Biology;
Vertebrate Biology.
Primary Area: Biological Sciences B
Discipline Other Research Areas
Biochemical Research
Methods
including but not limited to: Biochemical Research
Methods.
Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology
including but not limited to: Analytical Biochemistry;
Bioinformatics (Bioinformatics Software to be
Computer Science); Enzymes; Protein Trafficking;
Proteomics and Intermolecular Interactions;
Receptors and Membrane Biology; Signal
Transduction; Structural Biology (incl. Macromolecular
Modelling); Synthetic Biology; Systems Biology.
Cell Biology
including but not limited to: Cell Development,
Proliferation and Death; Cell Metabolism; Cell
Neurochemistry; Cellular Interactions (incl. Adhesion,
Matrix, Cell Wall).
Developmental Biology including but not limited to: Developmental Biology.
Genetics and Heredity
including but not limited to: Anthropological Genetics;
Cell and Nuclear Division; Developmental Genetics;
Epigenetics (incl. Genome Methylation and
Epigenomics); Gene Expression (incl. Microarray and
other genome-wide approaches); Genetic
Immunology; Genome Structure and Regulation;
Genomics; Molecular Evolution; Neurogenetics;
Population, Ecological and Evolutionary Genetics;
Quantitative Genetics (incl. Disease and Trait Mapping
Genetics).
Industrial Biotechnology
including but not limited to: Bio catalysis and Enzyme
Technology; Bioprocessing, Bioproduction and
Bioproducts; Fermentation; Industrial Biotechnology
Diagnostics; Industrial Microbiology (incl.
Biofeedstocks); Industrial Molecular Engineering of
Nucleic Acids and Proteins.
Medical Biotechnology
including but not limited to: Gene and Molecular
Therapy; Medical Biotechnology Diagnostics; Medical
Molecular Engineering of Nucleic Acids and Proteins;
Regenerative Medicine (incl. Stem Cells and Tissue
Engineering).
Reproductive Biology including but not limited to: Reproductive Biology.
Primary Area: Chemistry
Discipline Other Research Areas
Analytical Chemistry
including but not limited to: Analytical Spectrometry;
Electro analytical Chemistry; Flow Analysis;
Immunological and Bioassay Methods; Instrumental
Methods; Quality Assurance, Chemo metrics,
Traceability and Metrological Chemistry; Sensor
Technology; Separation Science.
Colloid and Nanochemistry
including but not limited to: Colloid and Surface
Chemistry; Nanochemistry; Molecular and Organic
Electronics; Nanotoxicology (chemical aspects).
Electrochemistry including but not limited to: Dry Cells; Batteries; Fuel
cells; Corrosion metals; Electrolysis.
Inorganic, Organometallic
and Nuclear Chemistry
including but not limited to: Bioinorganic Chemistry; f-
Block Chemistry; Inorganic Green Chemistry; Main
Group Metal Chemistry; Non-metal Chemistry; Solid
State Chemistry; Transition Metal Chemistry;
Inorganic Chemistry; Organometallic Chemistry,
Supramolecular Chemistry (inorganic and
organometallic aspects); Nuclear Chemistry.
Macromolecular and
Materials Chemistry
including but not limited to: Chemical Characterisation
of Materials; Supramolecular Chemistry (materials
chemistry aspects); Optical Properties of Materials;
Physical Chemistry of Materials; Polymerisation
Mechanisms; Synthesis of Materials; Theory and
Design of Materials; Molecular and Organic
Electronics.
Medicinal and
Biomolecular Chemistry
including but not limited to: Biologically Active
Molecules; Biomolecular Modelling and Design;
Characterisation of Biological Macromolecules;
Cheminformatics and Quantitative Structure-Activity
Relationships; Molecular Medicine; Proteins and
Peptides.
Organic Chemistry
including but not limited to: Free Radical Chemistry;
Natural Products Chemistry; Organic Chemical
Synthesis; Organic Green Chemistry; Physical
Organic Chemistry.
Physical Chemistry
including but not limited to: Catalysis and Mechanisms
of Reactions; Chemical Thermodynamics and
Energetics; Solution Chemistry; Structural Chemistry
and Spectroscopy; Transport Properties and Non-
equilibrium Processes.
Theoretical and
Computational Chemistry
including but not limited to: Quantum Chemistry;
Radiation and Matter; Reaction Kinetics and
Dynamics; Statistical Mechanics in Chemistry.
Primary Area: Computer Science
Discipline Other Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence and
Image Processing
including but not limited to: Adaptive Agents and
Intelligent Robotics; Artificial Life; Computer Graphics;
Computer Vision; Expert Systems, Image Processing;
Natural Language Processing; Neural, Evolutionary
and Fuzzy Computation; Pattern Recognition and
Data Mining; Simulation and Modelling; Virtual Reality
and Related Simulation.
Computation Theory and
Mathematics
including but not limited to: Analysis of Algorithms and
Complexity; Applied Discrete Mathematics;
Computational Logic and Formal Languages;
Mathematical Software; Numerical Computation.
Computer Software
including but not limited to: Bioinformatics Software;
Computer System Architecture; Computer System
Security; Concurrent Programming; Multimedia
Programming; Open Software; Operating Systems;
Programming Languages; Software Engineering.
Data Format
including but not limited to: Coding and Information
Theory; Data Encryption; Data Structures; Markup
Languages.
Distributed Computing
including but not limited to: Distributed and Grid
Systems; Mobile Technologies; Networking and
Communications; Ubiquitous Computing; Web
Technologies.
Information Systems
including but not limited to: Computer-Human
Interaction; Conceptual Modelling; Database
Management; Decision Support and Group Support
Systems; Global Information Systems; Information
Engineering and Theory; Information Systems
Development Methodologies; Information Systems
Management; Information Systems Organisation;
Information Systems Theory; Interorganisational
Information Systems and Web Services.
Primary Area: Earth and Environmental Sciences
Discipline Other Research Areas
Biodiversity Conservation including but not limited to: Conservation and
Biodiversity.
Ecology
including but not limited to: Behavioural Ecology;
Community Ecology; Ecological Physiology;
Freshwater Ecology; Marine and Estuarine Ecology
(incl. Marine Ichthyology); Paleoecology; Population
Ecology; Terrestrial Ecology. Ecological Impacts of
Climate Change; Ecosystem Function; Invasive
Species Ecology.
Environmental Sciences
including but not limited to: Environmental Impact
Assessment; Environmental Management;
Environmental Monitoring; Environmental
Rehabilitation; Natural Resource Management;
Wildlife and Habitat Management.
Geochemistry
including but not limited to: Exploration Geochemistry;
Inorganic Geochemistry; Isotope Geochemistry;
Organic Geochemistry.
Geophysics
Electrical and Electromagnetic Methods in
Geophysics; Geodynamics; Geophysical Fluid
Dynamics; Geothermics and Radiometrics;
Gravimetrics; Magnetism and Palaeomagnetism;
Seismology and Seismic Exploration.
Geology
including but not limited to: Basin Analysis;
Extraterrestrial Geology; Geochronology; Igneous and
Metamorphic Petrology; Marine Geoscience; Ore
Deposit Petrology; Petroleum and Coal Geology;
Sedimentology; Stratigraphy (incl. Biostratigraphy and
Sequence Stratigraphy); Structural Geology;
Tectonics, Volcanology.
Meteorology and
Atmospheric Sciences
including but not limited to: Atmospheric Aerosols;
Atmospheric Dynamics; Atmospheric Radiation;
Climate Change Processes; Climatology (excl.
Climate Change Processes); Cloud Physics;
Meteorology; Tropospheric and Stratospheric Physics,
Atmospheric Chemistry.
Mineralogy including but not limited to: Mineralogy and
Crystallography.
Oceanography, Hydrology,
Water Resources
including but not limited to: Biological Oceanography;
Chemical Oceanography; Physical Oceanography,
Hydrology: Surfacewater Hydrology, Water
Resources.
Palaeontology including but not limited to: Palaeontology; Palynology.
Physical Geography
including but not limited to: Geomorphology and
Regolith and Landscape Evolution; Glaciology;
Hydrogeology; Natural Hazards; Palaeoclimatology;
Quaternary Environments; Surface Processes.
Primary Area: Engineering
Discipline Other Research Areas
Chemical Engineering including but not limited to: Chemical engineering
(plants, products); Chemical Process Engineering.
Civil Engineering
including but not limited to: Civil engineering;
Architecture engineering; Construction Engineering,
Municipal and Structural Engineering; Transport
Engineering; Geotechnics.
Electrical Engineering,
Electronic engineering,
Information Engineering
including but not limited to: Electrical and Electronic
Engineering; Robotics and Automatic Control;
Automation and Control Systems; Communication
Engineering and Systems; Telecommunications;
Computer Hardware and Architecture;
Environmental Engineering
including, but not limited to: Environmental and
Geological Engineering,; Petroleum Engineering (fuel,
oils); Energy and Fuels; Remote Sensing; Mining and
Mineral Processing; Marine Engineering, Sea Vessels;
Ocean Engineering.
Food and Beverage
Engineering
including but not limited to: Food Engineering;
Beverage Engineering.
Materials Engineering
including but limited to: Materials Engineering;
Ceramics; Coating and Films; Composites (including
laminates, reinforced plastics, cermets, combined
natural and synthetic fibre fabrics; filled composites);
Paper and Wood;
Textiles (including synthetic dyes, colours and fibres);
Nanoscale Materials (engineering aspects only).
Mechanical Engineering
including but not limited to: Mechanical Engineering;
Applied Mechanics; Thermodynamics; Aerospace
Engineering; Nuclear-related Engineering; (Nuclear
Physics to be Physics); Audio Engineering, Reliability
Analysis.
Medical and Biomedical
Engineering
including but not limited to: Medical Engineering;
Medical Laboratory Technology (including laboratory
samples analysis; diagnostic technologies).
Primary Area: Mathematics
Disciplines Other Research Areas
Applied Mathematics
including but not limited to: Approximation Theory and
Asymptotic Methods; Biological Mathematics;
Calculus of Variations, Systems Theory and Control
Theory; Dynamical Systems in Applications; Financial
Mathematics; Operations Research; Theoretical and
Applied Mechanics; Numerical Analysis; Numerical
Solution of Differential and Integral Equations;
Optimisation.
Pure Mathematics
including, but not limited to: Algebraic and Differential
Geometry; Category Theory, K Theory, Homological
Algebra; Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics;
Group Theory and Generalisations; Lie Groups,
Harmonic and Fourier Analysis; Mathematical Logic,
Set Theory, Lattices and Universal Algebra; Operator
Algebras and Functional Analysis; Ordinary
Differential Equations; Difference Equations and
Dynamical Systems; Partial Differential Equations;
Real and Complex Functions (incl. Several Variables);
Topology.
Statistics and Probability
including but not limited to: Applied Statistics;
Biostatistics; Forensic Statistics; Probability Theory;
Statistical Theory; Stochastic Analysis and Modelling.
Primary Area: Physics
Disciplines Other Research Areas
Acoustics including but not limited to: Acoustics and Acoustical
Devices; Waves.
Astronomy and Space
Science
including but not limited to: Astrobiology; Astronomical
and Space Instrumentation; Cosmology and
Extragalactic Astronomy; Galactic Astronomy;
General Relativity and Gravitational Waves; High
Energy Astrophysics; Cosmic Rays; Mesospheric,
Ionospheric and Magnetospheric Physics; Planetary
Science; Space and Solar Physics; Stellar Astronomy
and Planetary Systems.
Atomic, Molecular and
Chemical Physics
including but not limited to: Magnetic Resonances;
Moessbauer effect; Atomic and Molecular Physics;
Chemical Physics.
Biophysics including but not limited to: Biological Physics; Medical
Physics.
Condensed Matter Physics
including but not limited to: Condensed Matter
Characterisation Technique Development;
Condensed Matter Imaging; Condensed Matter
Modelling and Density Functional Theory; Electronic
and Magnetic Properties of Condensed Matter;
Superconductivity; Soft Condensed Matter; Surfaces
and Structural Properties of Condensed Matter.
Fluids and Plasma Physics
including but not limited to: Surface Physics; Plasma
Physics; Fusion Plasmas; Electrical Discharges; Fluid
Physics.
Nuclear Physics including but not limited to: Nuclear Physics.
Optics
including but not limited to: Laser Optics; Quantum
Optics; Classical and Physical Optics; Lasers and
Quantum Electronics; Nonlinear Optics and
Spectroscopy; Photonics, Optoelectronics and Optical
Communications.
Particles and Fields
Physics
including but not limited to: Particle Physics;
Degenerate Quantum Gases and Atom Optics; Field
Theory and String Theory.
Theoretical Physics
including but not limited to: Mathematical Aspects of
Classical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics and
Quantum Information Theory; Mathematical Aspects
of General Relativity; Mathematical Aspects of
Quantum and Conformal Field Theory, Quantum
Gravity and String Theory; Statistical Mechanics,
Physical Combinatorics and Mathematical Aspects of
Condensed Matter; Electrostatics and
Electrodynamics; Thermodynamics and Statistical
Physics.
