Transformative Research to Address Health Disparities and Advance Health Equity
 The NIH Common Fund’s Transformative Research to Address Health Disparities and Advance Health Equity initiative is supporting innovative, translational research projects to prevent, reduce, or eliminate health disparities and advance health equity. Additionally, this initiative is expected to increase the competitiveness of investigators and expand the research base dedicated to health disparities research at minority serving institutions (MSIs). In America, health disparities remain a persistent issue affecting racial/ethnic minority populations and other groups. These individuals have higher rates of certain diseases and death compared to the general population, despite scientific and technological discoveries that have improved the health of the U.S. population overall. The science of health disparities continues to advance; however, more research is required to improve, reduce, and ultimately, eliminate health disparities and health inequities.  

To tackle health disparities and advance health equity, this initiative is funding approximately $58 million over five years, pending availability of funds to eleven grants and includes a set of awards from MSIs. Each award includes a ground-breaking intervention component and focuses on one or more NIH-designated populations that experience health disparities in the U.S. Through the transformative health disparities research and the commitment to MSIs, the Transformative Research to Address Health Disparities and Advance Health Equity initiative supports NIH’s broader commitment to end structural racism and racial inequities throughout the biomedical research enterprise and the goals of the NIH UNITE effort. 

   

If you have questions about the Common Fund’s Transformative Research to Address Health Disparities and Advance Health Equity initiative, please email them to CFHealthDisparities@nih.gov(link sends e-mail). To receive updates about these efforts, sign up for our listserv: CFHealthDisparitiesResearch-List.