Supports STEM undergraduates to become effective K-12 teachers and experienced K-12 educators to become teacher leaders in high-need schools. The program also supports research on effectiveness and retention of K-12 STEM teachers in high-need schools.

Synopsis
The National Science Foundation Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program (Noyce) invites innovative proposals that address the critical need for recruiting, preparing, and retaining highly effective elementary and secondary mathematics and science teachers and teacher leaders in high-need school districts. To achieve this goal, Noyce supports talented science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) undergraduate majors and professionals to become effective K-12 STEM teachers. It also supports experienced, exemplary K-12 STEM teachers to become teacher leaders in high-need school districts. In addition, Noyce supports research on the effectiveness and retention of K-12 STEM teachers in high-need school districts. Noyce offers four program tracks: Track 1: The Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarships and Stipends (S&S) Track, Track 2: The NSF Teaching Fellowships (TF) Track, Track 3: The NSF Master Teaching Fellowships (MTF) Track, and Track 4: The Noyce Research Track. In addition, Capacity Building proposals are accepted from proposers intending to develop a proposal in any of the program's tracks.

Table 1: Categories of Noyce Funding*

                                                      	Intended Outcome	Eligible Preservice or Inservice Teachers	Length of Required Teaching Commitment
Track 1: Scholarships and Stipends (S&S)

up to $1,200,000 with a duration of up to 5 years

Develop K-12 STEM teachers in high-need school districts	Noyce-eligible STEM undergraduate majors & STEM professionals	2 years/year of support
Track 2: Teaching Fellowships (TF)

up to $3,000,000, with a duration of up to 6 years

Noyce-eligible STEM professionals	4 years
Track 3: Master Teaching Fellowships (MTF)

up to $3,000,000, with a duration of up to 6 years

Develop K-12 STEM teacher leaders in high- need school districts	K-12 STEM teachers with a bachelor's degree or master's degree in their field	5 years
Track 4: Noyce Research

up to $1,000,000, with a duration of up to 5 years

Research effectiveness and retention of K-12 STEM teachers in high-need school districts	N/A	N/A
Capacity Building

up to $75,000, with a duration of up to 1 year

N/A	N/A	N/A
 *Awards may exceed the budget maximums through Collaboration Incentives for engagement of community colleges in Capacity Building or Track 1 projects, engagement with Noyce awards in Track 4 projects, or engagement with minority-serving institutions in any Noyce submission. See Section III: Award Information for additional details.