Synopsis
Partnerships for Enhanced Engagement in Research (PEER) is a USAID-funded competitive grants program that provides an opportunity to support scientists in developing countries who work with NSF, NASA, NIH, Smithsonian Institution, USDA, and USGS funded principal investigators (PIs) at U.S. institutions. PEER  is intended to build scientific capacity and empower researchers in developing countries to use science, technology, innovation, and partnerships to address local and global development challenges. PEER funding may be used to train students and faculty, equip laboratories and field stations, and fund research, building scientific networks to address global challenges.

The National Academies, which administers the PEER program, will receive and review PEER proposals that have been prepared and submitted by developing country scientists and will make awards directly to institutions in host countries. Please see the National Academies website for complete eligibility details, proposal submission instructions, and the application form. Program questions regarding eligibility of NSF-funded partners are invited to contact the NSF program's staff at peer-nsf@nsf.gov .

PEER proposals will be accepted from researchers in eligible developing countries. Developing country applicants should either be actively engaged in or plan to be engaged in a collaborative research project with an NSF-funded PI. PEER proposals are not accepted from U.S. researchers.

Areas in which both NSF and USAID have strong mutual interests include, but are not limited to, the following:

Food security topics such as agricultural development, fisheries, and plant genomics
Climate change impacts such as water sustainability, hydrology, ocean acidification, climate process and modeling, and environmental engineering
Other development topics including disaster mitigation, biodiversity, water, and renewable energy
Additionally, USAID missions and technical offices have made additional funding available for research conducted on specific topics of interest, as specified in the PEER Science solicitation.