Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP)

Synopsis
This new solicitation from the Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP) calls for proposals for an LSAMP National Coordination Hub (LSAMP Hub) and for Louis Stokes Community Resource Centers (LSCRCs). These new funding opportunities will support the overall goal of the LSAMP program to assist universities and colleges in diversifying the nation’s science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) workforce by increasing the number of STEM baccalaureate and graduate degrees awarded to individuals from populations underrepresented in these disciplines: Blacks and African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanic and Latino Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Native Pacific Islanders.

The LSAMP Hub will promote intentional coordination, stronger collaborations, and enhance interactions among the broader LSAMP community as well as provide a bridge between alliance and non-alliance organizations. The LSAMP Hub activities will support comprehensive, evidence-based, innovative, and sustained strategies that ultimately result in the graduation of well-prepared, highly-qualified students from underrepresented minority groups who pursue graduate studies or careers in STEM. In addition, the LSAMP Hub will serve as the nexus for LSAMP activities, including those of alliances, existing Louis Stokes Regional Centers of Excellence in Broadening Participation (LSRCEs), and the new LSCRCs, to support the overall LSAMP goals. 

The LSCRCs will accelerate the pace of knowledge generation and research dissemination in the areas of broadening participation, STEM education for LSAMP populations, and preparation for national STEM priorities. In addition, the LSCRCs will support a community of researchers and facilitate scholarly opportunities that will further advance the overall goal of the LSAMP program to diversify the nation’s STEM workforce. 

The activities of the Hub, along with the new LSCRCs, will complement and amplify the work of the existing alliances and assist in wider dissemination of knowledge production from LSAMP activities. They will also support the program in further development of partnerships both across the LSAMP community and with other national efforts. These efforts are in alignment with NSF goals and priorities included in the NSF Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years (FY) 2022 – 2026, Leading the World in Discovery and Innovation, STEM Talent Development and the Delivery of Benefits from Research, the National Science Board’s Vision 2030 with its emphasis on the importance of finding the missing millions to reduce the significant talent gap in the Nation’s workforce, and the Federal Government's five-year strategic plan for STEM education, Charting a Course for Success:  America’s Strategy for STEM Education.