Synopsis
The Trans-Atlantic Platform Recovery, Renewal, and Resilience in a Post-Pandemic World (T-AP RRR) opportunity supports international, collaborative research projects that address key gaps in our understanding of the complex societal effects of COVID-19.  Specifically, T-AP RRR supports research that addresses one or more of the following challenges:  reducing inequalities and vulnerabilities; building a more resilient, inclusive, and sustainable society; fostering democratic governance and participation; advancing responsible and inclusive digital innovation; and/or ensuring effective and accurate communication and media.

Proposals requesting NSF funding must fit within the scientific purview of the NSF Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences (SBE). Proposers are strongly encouraged to consult SBE’s programs and contact the cognizant program director (see Contacts, above) to discuss their proposals’ fit within NSF/SBE’s purview prior to submission of the international team proposal to the T-AP RRR Call. 

International Team Composition

T-AP RRR supports collaborative research teams from four continents: Africa (Republic of South Africa); Europe (Croatia, Finland, France, Germany, Poland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom); North America (Canada, the United States); and South America (Brazil and Colombia).  Teams must include researchers based in at least three participating T-AP RRR countries and must include partners from both sides of the Atlantic, i.e., from Europe/Africa and the Americas. Research partners will receive funding from their own national funding agencies for projects of up to 36 months in duration. 

Proposal Preparation and Submission

The full T-AP RRR Call for Proposals, details about eligibility, and instructions for preparing and submitting proposals will be available on the T-AP website on April 12, 2021. International team proposals must first be submitted via the SAGe system hosted by the São Paulo Research Foundation. The link to the SAGe system can be found on the T-AP website. The submission deadline is July 12, 2021.

Following panel review and Program Officer deliberations, Principal Investigators (PIs) whose proposals have been recommended for funding through NSF will be invited to submit a copy of the original proposal, plus additional documents required for all NSF proposals, to NSF’s FastLane system, Research.gov, or Grants.gov. 

 

Invited full proposals submitted via FastLane or Research.gov: NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide proposal preparation guidelines apply.

Invited full proposals submitted via Grants.gov: NSF Grants.gov Application Guide: A Guide for the Preparation and Submission of NSF Applications via Grants.gov guidelines apply.

