Supports postdoctoral researchers performing interdisciplinary polar research that develops partnerships across polar regions or with nonpolar research communities. Fellowships also support researchers who have had limited access to polar research resources.

Synopsis
The Office of Polar Programs (OPP) offers postdoctoral research fellowships (PRF) to provide opportunities for early career scientists, including social scientists, to accomplish one or more of the following goals: expand their work across traditional disciplinary lines, develop new partnerships connecting the polar regions and/or non-polar research communities, and provide entry to researchers who have traditionally had limited access to polar research resources, sites and facilities. The fellowship program encourages the integration of new investigators who have not previously worked in polar regions and/or innovative techniques that have not previously been applied to polar science into polar research. Additionally, the OPP-PRF aims to support beginning investigators with experiences that will establish them in positions of leadership in the scientific community. During their tenure, Fellows will affiliate with a host research institution(s) and conduct research on topics supported by OPP. Successful applicants will participate in a professional development program that will promote mentoring skills and coordinate their involvement in activities that increase the engagement of groups that have previously had limited engagement in polar Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM).

Applicants must be U.S. citizens, nationals or permanent residents. Applicants who are women, veterans, persons with disabilities, and underrepresented minorities in STEM, or who have attended community colleges and minority-serving institutions (e.g., Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Alaska Native Serving Institutions, and Hawaiian Native and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions) are especially encouraged to apply.

Fellowship proposals must be submitted by individuals. However, if an award is recommended, the proposal will be transferred to the host institution where the postdoctoral Fellow will be named as the PI. The award will be issued to the host institution as a regular research award, and the award will be administered by the host institution(s).

