Synopsis
The mission of the Education and Workforce Cluster (EWF) is to ensure the development of a diverse workforce well prepared for careers in computing-related and computationally-intensive fields.  We seek to train and sustain a broad base of highly productive professionals and researchers, who understand foundational concepts of computing, know how to effectively use and develop its methodologies and tools, have the capacity to interact with all sectors of our society, and are prepared to lead the global economy in IT innovation.

To accomplish this, EWF programs aim to

Transform computing education at all levels and on a national scale to meet the challenges and opportunities of a world where computing is increasingly essential to all sectors of society.
Broaden participation in order to overturn the longstanding underrepresentation in computing, achieving proportional representation of women, persons with disabilities, African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, Alaskan Natives, and indigenous people.
Provide leadership and engage communities in infusing computational thinking into education at all levels and across disciplinary boundaries.
Support efforts that build the capacity of teachers and out-of-school providers to more effectively teach computing, ensuring that all students have opportunities to develop strong computational skills independent of socio-economic background, geographic region, or the types of academic institutions they attend.
Develop and support sustainable communities of researchers involved in innovative and transformative approaches to computing education.
Promote and enable excellence in computing education through the integration of research and education.
Recognize and support outstanding students and faculty in the field of computing as they become knowledge experts who can contribute significantly to research, teaching, and innovation.
EWF's flagship program - Computing Education for the 21st Century (CE21) - for the first time, tightly integrates its efforts in education with those in broadening participation.  This integration recognizes that education efforts will not achieve their maximum impact if they are not informed by best practices in broadening participation and that engagement activities will not be effective if they do not also build the competencies of the participating students.

Education and Workforce Cluster Staff