European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF)

The EMFAF entered into force on 14 July 2021.  
Page contents

    EMFAF support
    Budget
    Programme management
    How to apply
    Documents
    Related links

EMFAF operational programmes 2021 - 2027

FR operational programme (EMFAF) has been adopted
Read more

The EMFAF runs from 2021 to 2027 and supports the EU common fisheries policy (CFP), the EU maritime policy and the EU agenda for international ocean governance.

It provides support for developing innovative projects ensuring that aquatic and maritime resources are used sustainably.

As a global ocean actor and a major producer of seafood, the EU has a responsibility to protect and sustainably use the oceans and their resources. It is also in the EU's socio-economic interest to guarantee the availability of food supplies, the competitiveness of the maritime economy and the livelihood of coastal communities.

The fund helps achieve sustainable fisheries and conserve marine biological resources. This leads to

    food security through the supply of seafood products
    growth of a sustainable blue economy
    healthy, safe and sustainably managed seas and oceans

It also helps achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 14 (‘conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources’), to which the EU is committed.

Furthermore, the EMFAF helps fulfil the objectives of the European Green DealSearch for available translations of the preceding linkEN•••, the roadmap for the EU climate and environmental policies.
EMFAF support

The EMFAF supports innovative projects that contribute to the sustainable exploitation and management of aquatic and maritime resources.

In particular, it facilitates

    the transition to sustainable and low-carbon fishing
    the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems
    the supply of quality and healthy seafood to European consumers
    the socio-economic attractiveness and the generational renewal of the fishing sector, in particular as regards small-scale coastal fisheries
    the development of a sustainable and competitive aquaculture contributing to food security
    the improvement of skills and working conditions in the fishing and aquaculture sectors
    the economic and social vitality of coastal communities
    innovation in the sustainable blue economy
    maritime security towards a safe maritime space
    international cooperation towards healthy, safe and sustainably managed oceans

Budget

The total budget for 2021-2027 is €6.108 billion.
Programme management

The programme management is divided between shared management and direct management. 

    shared management –  €5.311 billion is provided through national programmes co-financed by the EU budget and EU countries, for which the Common Provision Regulation 2021-2027Search for available translations of the preceding linkEN••• is applicable
    direct management – €797 million is provided directly by the Commission

Under shared management, each country receives the same percentage of the fund’s budget as during the previous period, 2014-2020.
