RFCS goal

The Research Fund for Coal and Steel (RFCS) co-finances through grants research and innovation projects in the areas of coal and steel.

Every year, the fund supports projects at universities, research centres, and private companies.

RFCS is a EU funding programme supporting research projects in the coal and steel sectors. The RFCS has its own legal bases and stands outside the Multiannual Financial Framework. It is funded via the revenues generated by the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in liquidation assets, which are exclusively devoted to research in the sectors related to the coal and steel industry, in accordance with the provisions of Protocol (37) to the Treaties.

On 16 July 2020, the Commission adopted a package of proposals to revise the three legal bases regulating the Research Programme of the Research Fund for Coal and Steel.

On 19 July 2021, the EU adopted the new RFCS package. This modernisation act will enable the fund to use a portion of the assets of the European Steel and Coal Community (ECSC) in liquidation for the period 2021-27 in order to provide an annual RFCS allocation of € 111 million.

The Commission has the mandate, through its budgetary services, to manage the assets of the ECSC in liquidation.

This will contribute towards the funding of large clean steelmaking research and innovation breakthrough projects, leading to near zero-carbon steel making by 2030; and research projects for the coal sector, to assist the just transition of formerly operating coal mines or coal mines in the process of closure, and related infrastructure in line with the Just Transition Mechanism.

Specifically to the sector related to the steel industry, the Commission will aim to support research projects via a dedicated Clean Steel co-programmed partnership in synergy with other European Union’s programmes, especially with Horizon Europe.

RFCS funded projects will cover:

    steel production processes
    optimised utilisation and conservation of resources, energy savings and industrial efficiency improvements
    health and safety at work
    environmental protection
    technologies supporting coal regions in transition
    emission reductions from steel production
