About the TSI

The Technical Support Instrument (TSI) is the EU programme that provides tailor-made technical expertise to EU Member States to design and implement reforms. The support is demand driven and does not require co-financing from Member States. It is an important pillar of the EU’s initiative to help Member States mitigate the economic and social consequences of the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis.

Smart, sustainable and socially responsible reforms help to strengthen the resilience of our economies and societies. The TSI offers Member States a unique service to help them tackle reform challenges. The support can take the form of, for example, strategic and legal advice, studies, training and expert visits on the ground. It can cover any phase in the reform process. From preparation and design to development and implementation of the reforms.

The technical support is provided in a wide range of policy areas, including but not limited to climate action, digital transition and health. Member States can also request support to prepare, amend, implement and revise their national recovery and resilience plans under the Recovery and Resilience Facility.

By providing on the ground support to overcome reform challenges, the TSI helps Member States to recover from the social and economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, to improve the quality of public services and to reinforce sustainable and inclusive economic growth. The TSI is the successor programme of the Structural Reform Support Programme (2017-2020) and builds on its experience in building capacity in Member States. The European Commission's Directorate-General forStructural Reform Support (DG REFORM) manages the TSI.
TSI support for reforms

    starts with a request for support from an EU Member State

    is tailor-made to address the country's needs

    provides a unique combination of expertise from the European Commission, EU Member States’  national administrations, international organisations and/or the private sector

    strengthens the capacity of an EU Member State to carry out reforms
    requires no co-financing

Budget

€864 million for the period 2021-2027 (in current prices)
Types of support

EU Member States can request technical support under the TSI to:

    implement resilience-enhancing reforms in the context of EU economic governance, such as those arising from country-specific recommendations under the European Semester and by virtue of implementing EU law
    prepare, amend, implement and revise national recovery and resilience plans under the Recovery and Resilience Facility
    implement economic adjustment programmes
    implement reforms undertaken at their own initiative

How does it work?

An EU Member State wishing to receive technical support submits a request to the Commission, via a national Coordinating Authority. This request must be submitted by 31 October of each year.

The Commission analyses the requests received and enters into dialogue with the national Coordinating Authorities to assess the country' specific needs and the options to support the design and implementation of the reforms.

Support may be provided directly through the Commission’s in-house expertise or with other providers of technical support:

    experts from EU Member States' national administrations (TAIEX)
    international organisations
    private firms and consultancies
    individual experts from the private sector

TAIEX-TSI Peer 2 Peer is an instrument managed in cooperation with the Directorate General for European Neighborhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR) to implement part of the TSI of DG REFORM. The instrument allows experts from national administrations to exchange expertise through expert missions, study visits and workshops. The instrument is only available for projects selected under the TSI.
Reform areas covered

The TSI provides technical support to Member States in a wide range of policy areas. These include:

    Green transition (including climate action, circular economy and energy transition)
    Digital transition
    Health and long-term care
    Skills, education and training
    Governance and public administration
    Competitiveness
    Financial sector and access to finance
    Revenue administration and public financial management
    Labour market, social protection and migration
