About
ARDAP’s mission is to support U.S. leadership in physical sciences R&D by coordinating and making accelerator R&D and production investments that are aimed at addressing Accelerator Science and Technology needs and strengthening domestic production capabilities.

ARDAP was established in April 2020 to provide strategic planning capabilities, support cross-cutting and use-inspired R&D, and reduce supply chain risks for future Office of Science (SC) accelerator-based research facilities. ARDAP helps coordinate the ongoing accelerator science and technology investments made through the core SC R&D Programs and to make additional investments both in R&D and in domestic supplier capabilities to ensure future U.S. leadership in scientific facilities. ARDAP’s investment lanes in R&D and in production are (1) cross-cutting and use-inspired accelerator science and technology at the low technology readiness level (TRL); (2) mid-TRL maturation of critical accelerator technologies to cross the “technology valley of death”; and (3) mid- to high-manufacturing readiness level (MRL) development to aid the domestic accelerator industry in commercializing the technology. In addition, ARDAP is charged with being a systems engineering resource for accelerator-based facilities and to help transition accelerator technologies developed for future generations of scientific facilities into a broad range of applications that benefit society.

The ARDAP Programs page summarizes ARDAP’s activities in R&D and production. ARDAP’s Accelerator Research and Development program, which includes Accelerator Stewardship, supports use-inspired basic R&D of broad benefit, developing both cross-cutting accelerator technology (such as ultrafast laser technology, RF power sources) and supporting first-of-kind benchtop tests of new accelerator technology applications. ARDAP’s Accelerator Production program identifies supply-chain vulnerabilities and invests in cross-cutting research and development that can maintain or re-establish domestic strength in these technology areas. Targeted investments will build up the domestic vendor capability in these technology areas.