The Office of International Nuclear Energy Policy and Cooperation (INEPC) collaborates with international partners to support the safe, secure, and peaceful use of nuclear energy. It works both bilaterally and multilaterally to accomplish this work.

Today, nuclear energy represents the single largest source of carbon-free baseload energy, accounting for nearly 20% of the electricity generated in the United States and 55% of our low-carbon production, avoiding over 520 million metric tons of carbon emissions. With approximately 440 commercial reactors operating in 30 countries—and 300 more valued at $1.6 trillion projected worldwide over the next 15 years—nuclear power is sure to be  a major energy source and economic engine for many decades to come. In addition to providing clean and reliable electricity, nuclear energy will also continue to play a key role in supporting energy security, creating jobs, and providing export opportunities.

These facts remind us that in addition to the significant contributions being made by nuclear energy, there are a number of challenges related to nonproliferation, security, safety, and the environment that the global community of nations must work together to address. The global nature of nuclear energy, both in its benefits and challenges, is why robust international collaboration is crucial—and why the Office of Nuclear Energy incorporates international collaboration as a key element of its overall mission and programmatic activities.

DOE AND U.S. GOVERNMENT COORDINATION 
INEPC works closely with the Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), Office of Policy and International Affairs, Office of the General Counsel and national laboratories. Outside of the Department, INEPC works with other cabinet-level agencies in support of U.S. nuclear energy policy development and to provide technical input. In addition, INEPC supports NE’s engagement with the U.S. Congress in matters relating to international cooperation and industry support.

INTERAGENCY COOPERATION
National Security Council
U.S. Department of State
U.S. Department of Commerce
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Other cabinet-level agencies as necessary