The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Bioenergy Technologies Office (BETO) supports groundbreaking technologies to produce fuels, products, and power from non-food sources of biomass and waste resources.

a montage of the different BETO feedstocks. Algae pongs, airplanes, labs and fields. 
Bioenergy can help ensure an economically sound and secure future while reducing environmental impacts through:

Developing affordable domestic fuels and co-products
Advancing clean energy sources
Generating domestic jobs to support the growth of the U.S. bioeconomy.
BETO: Growing America's Energy Future through R&D
BETO focuses on forming public-private partnerships to support research and development (R&D) for the production of industrially viable biofuels and bioproducts using renewable biomass and waste streams. BETO guides R&D efforts at the DOE National Laboratories to produce “drop-in” biofuels compatible with existing fueling infrastructure and vehicles.

BETO's Strategic Approach
BETO funds work in collaboration with industry, academia, and DOE national laboratories to develop advanced technologies and innovative solutions to reduce the costs of biofuels. The R&D supported by BETO and its partners is creating cutting-edge technologies used in the processing of biomass and waste, from harvesting and preprocessing to conversion.

BETO is focused on technologies to efficiently convert organic materials and biomass into affordable biofuels and bioproducts. These bioenergy technologies will help decarbonize the transportation sector, while mitigating greenhouse gas emissions to combat climate change.

A montage of men and women working in a lab.
BETO R&D program areas enable BETO to leverage diverse sources of biomass and waste across America and use innovative technologies to enable a thriving bioeconomy. This bioeconomy will be grounded in achieving national priorities for a clean energy economy that address the climate emergency while spurring economic growth and job creation. The five BETO program areas are:

Advanced Algal Systems
Conversion Technologies
Data, Modeling, and Analysis
Feedstock Technologies
Systems Development and Integration
Bioenergy Industry Benefits Job Creation
A robust bioenergy industry will generate a variety of U.S. jobs across several sectors, from farming and trucking to microbiology and chemical engineering. Bioenergy and bioproduct production has significant potential to serve as a vehicle for domestic job creation and economic opportunity for communities throughout the nation. Learn more at BETO's Careers and Education web page.