With more than 350,000 energy-utilizing buildings and 600,000 vehicles, the federal government is the nation’s largest energy consumer. Energy used in buildings and facilities represents about 40% of the total site-delivered energy use of the federal government, with vehicle and equipment energy use accounting for 60%.

What We Do
Mandated by law, the Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) focuses on key services that help agencies meet energy- and water-reduction requirements and goals.

ACTION	MANDATED BY	SUPPORTING FEDERAL PRIORITY
Issue Legislative and Executive Guidance	42 U.S.C. 8252, 8253, and 8257	American Prosperity and American Energy Dominance
Facilitate Technology Integration	42 U.S.C. § 8259b	Modernizing and Managing Infrastructure
Leverage Funding Sources	42 U.S.C. § 8287 et seq.	Modernizing and Managing Infrastructure
Provide Technical Assistance	42 U.S.C. § 8257	American Prosperity and American Energy Dominance
Track Agency Accountability	42 U.S.C. § 17143, 42 U.S.C. 8253-8258, and 42 U.S.C. 15852	Increasing Government Accountability
Develop Accredited Training	42 U.S.C. 8252 and 8253	Developing a Future-Focused Workforce
Mission and Stakeholders
FEMP works with its stakeholders to enable federal agencies to meet energy-related goals, identify affordable solutions, facilitate public-private partnerships, and provide energy leadership to the country by identifying government best practices.

Graphic displaying the breakdown of FEMP stakeholders.
FEMP works with a variety of stakeholders to ensure energy and water savings in the federal government.

Federal Government Progress
FEMP guides federal agencies to leverage FEMP resources and assistance to spur public-private partnerships and success- fully implement replicable, well-designed projects.

These efforts have resulted in the federal government achieving a 50% reduction in energy intensity since 1975.

Graph showing FEMP facility energy efficiency goals
Since 1975, FEMP has helped agencies reduce the energy intensity of their facilities by 50%.

Energy consumed in federal government facilities has been generally declining over the past four decades. This reduction stems from the total square footage occupied by the federal government, which has continued to fall since its peak in fiscal year (FY) 1987, and from the energy consumed per square foot inside federal buildings, which has been declining since FY 1975.

View graphs that illustrate federal government progress.

Focus Areas
Federal agencies have a tremendous opportunity and responsibility to lead by example in cutting energy waste and advancing America’s progress toward energy independence, resiliency, and security.

FEMP strives to build agencies’ ability and agility to manage to their critical missions by becoming efficient, resilient, and secure. It supplies agencies with the information, tools, and assistance they need to meet and track their energy-related requirements and goals through the following five focus areas.

Video Url

Inside the FEMP Wheelhouse
Video courtesy of the Department of Energy
FEMP wheelhouse graphic highlighting Strategic Programming and Integration Planning.
Strategic Programming and Integration Planning
FEMP provides agencies with information and resources to help them develop strategic programs and plans to successfully reduce federal energy and water use. It also assembles, analyzes, and shares information about federal laws and requirements.

FEMP wheelhouse graphic highlighting Facility and Fleet Optimization.
Facility and Fleet Optimization
FEMP coordinates processes to integrate mission assurance with optimized and cost-effective facility and fleet operations. Specialty areas include:

Auditing
Commissioning
Data Centers
Energy-Efficient Products
Energy Management Information Systems
Federal Fleet Management
Healthy Buildings
Laboratories
Metering
Operations and Maintenance
Re-tuning
Sustainable Federal Buildings
Water Efficiency
FEMP wheelhouse graphic with the Energy and Water Resilience and Security wedge highlighted.
Energy and Water Resilience and Security
FEMP guides portfolio resilience planning for the strategic integration of advanced, secure technologies and tackles energy management challenges from cybersecurity threats.

FEMP wheelhouse graphic with Energy and Project Procurement Development Services.
Energy and Project Procurement Development Services
FEMP leverages private-sector financing with no up-front capital costs and supports federal projects with technical and procurement expertise. Specialty areas include:

Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPC)
ESPC ENABLE
ESPC Energy Sales Agreements
Utility Program and Utility Energy Service Contracts
Distributed Energy and Energy Procurement
FEMP wheelhouse with the Federal Leadership and Engagement wedge highlighted.
Federal Leadership and Engagement
FEMP helps agencies account for energy and water reductions, engages them in interagency working groups and workforce development opportunities, and recognizes their efforts. Specialty areas include:

Agency Reporting and Data
Federal Energy and Water Management Awards
Interagency Working Groups
Training
U.S. Department of Energy Scholars Program