Previous
Next
Play
Program Snapshot
UDN logo

The Common Fund’s Undiagnosed Diseases Network (UDN) is a research study to improve the level of diagnosis of rare and undiagnosed conditions. In the United States, it has been estimated that approximately 25 million Americans suffer from a rare disorder. The UDN established a nationwide network of clinicians and researchers who use both basic and clinical research to uncover the underlying disease mechanisms associated with these conditions. In its first 20 months, the UDN accepted 601 participants undiagnosed by traditional medical practices. Of those who completed their UDN evaluation during this time, 35% were given a diagnosis. Many of these diagnoses were rare genetic diseases including 31 previously unknown syndromes. The UDN is currently accepting participant applications(link is external)..

Less
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) established an intramural research program on undiagnosed diseases in 2008, known now as the Undiagnosed Diseases Program (UDP), to make progress in uncovering, understanding, and treating rare disorders. Building on the success of this program in diagnosing both known and new diseases, the Common Fund’s Undiagnosed Diseases Network (UDN) aims to achieve this type of cross-disciplinary approach to disease diagnosis in academic medical centers around the United States. The NIH Common Fund’s Undiagnosed Diseases Network is promoting the use of genomic data in disease diagnosis and engaging basic researchers to uncover the underlying disease mechanisms so that treatments may be identified. The program is also training clinicians in the use of contemporary genomic approaches to aid in disease diagnosis. The network also benefits from having the capacity to share data and approaches widely throughout the scientific community. The UDN was launched in 2013 and expanded in 2018. It currently contains the following components.
Twelve Clinical Sites (including the NIH UDP)
Coordinating Center
Sequencing Core
Two Model Organisms Screening Centers
Metabolomics Core
Central Biorepository
The goal of the Common Fund Program is to form a sustainable national resource to diagnose both rare and new diseases, advance laboratory and clinical research, enhance global coordination and collaboration among laboratory and clinical researchers, and share resulting data and approaches throughout the scientific and clinical communities.

 

Who is in the Network?
The UDN is a group of clinical and research centers across the United States. More information about the centers that make up the UDN can be found here(link is external).

UDN Sites

Contact

For more information about the UDN or application process, individuals can contact the UDN Coordinating Center by:

Telephone
Toll-free from USA, Canada, Mexico: 1-844-RING UDN (746-4836)
From all other countries: 1-617-432-2344
Email: UDN@hms.harvard.edu(link sends e-mail)

Or Visit the UDN Coordinating Center Website