Synopsis
Proposals submitted to this program (including individual and collaborative proposals, GOALIs) must be submitted to the CHE Disciplinary Research Programs solicitation.

Exceptions:

RUI proposals must be submitted to the RUI Solicitation during the regular proposal submission window for this program.
Proposals submitted in response to another solicitation (CAREER) should follow the solicitation guidelines (e.g. CAREER)
Conference, workshop, EAGER, RAPID or RAISE proposals must be discussed with a Program Officer before submission, and then should only be submitted as instructed.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI) Program supports research focusing on chemically-relevant measurement science and chemical imaging. Projects may target development of innovative approaches and instruments likely to be of use to the chemistry community, and/or improved understanding of new and existing methods. Research areas include, but are not limited to, analytical separation science; electroanalytical chemistry; and spectrometry (including atomic, molecular, magnetic resonance, and mass spectrometry). Development of new chemical imaging and measurement tools that probe chemical properties and processes is supported. Innovations enabling the monitoring and imaging of chemical and electronic processes across a wide range of time and length scales are also relevant. New approaches to data analysis and interpretation (including cheminformatics) are encouraged. Proposals addressing established techniques must seek improved understanding and/or innovative approaches to substantially broaden applicability. Sensor-related proposals are expected to address new approaches to chemical sensing, with prospects for broad utility and significant enhancement of current capabilities.

Proposals addressing development of new instrumentation that enables chemical measurements likely to be of wide interest and utility to the chemistry research community should include the words "Instrument Development:" at the beginning of the title, and include, in the Project Description, consideration of a development timeline, potential utility, and prospects for the extension of the technique to other uses or fields, should it prove viable.

Industrial partnerships are encouraged through the Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) mechanism as means of enhancing use by the greater community, but concepts nearing commercialization are better fits to Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) or Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs.

Proposals integrating innovative computational approaches with CMI-relevant research, such as those enabling efficient and effective data acquisition and analysis, are encouraged and should be submitted to the CMI Program through the Computational and Data Science and Engineering (CDS&E) funding opportunity.

Through the Critical Aspects of Sustainability (CAS) program, the Division of Chemistry looks to support basic research aimed at improving the sustainability of resources for future generations while maintaining or improving current products within a global society. Examples of CAS-relevant studies appropriate for the CMI Program include, but are not limited to: measurement science innovations targeting capabilities needed for improved characterization of important atmospheric and environmental systems; and innovations in separations science, targeting reduced use of costly and/or toxic solvents.

PIs are encouraged to monitor current funding priorities identified by the Foundation and the Executive and Legislative branches, and to highlight relevant synergies in their Project Summaries and Project Descriptions.

The CMI Program does not encourage proposals addressing: the development of techniques for topological/morphological imaging; research based on known sensing mechanisms, such as probe synthesis or assembly of array-type devices; or engineering aspects of membrane separations, microfluidics, and/or "lab-on-a-chip" device design, technology, and application. Proposals for the design and synthesis of novel molecular probes for sensing or contrast agents may be more suitable for the CSDM-B Program. Proposals for optimizing and/or utilizing established methods for specific applications should be directed to programs focused on the application. Proposals addressing innovations with anticipated utility primarily in other communities (e.g., biology or materials) are also not encouraged. Proposals with large equipment requests (over $150,000) may be better suited to the Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) Program.

For recent awards made by the program, search NSF award database with the Program Element Code 6880.

What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)
Map of Recent Awards Made Through This Program
