Synopsis
The aim of the DMS Workforce Program is to increase the number of well-prepared U.S. citizens, nationals, and permanent residents who successfully pursue careers in the mathematical sciences and in other professions in which expertise in the mathematical sciences plays an increasingly important role. Each project supported by the DMS Workforce Program includes, as a core component, research in the mathematical sciences conducted by trainees.

The DMS Workforce Program comprises the following three program solicitations. 

Mathematical Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (MSPRF)
Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Sites
Research Training Groups in the Mathematical Sciences (RTG)
The purpose of the Mathematical Sciences Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (MSPRF) program is to support future leaders in mathematics and statistics by facilitating their participation in postdoctoral research environments that will have maximal impact on their future scientific development. The Fellowships are awards to individuals, and applications are submitted directly by the applicant to the NSF. The Fellow affiliates with a host institution during the entire tenure of the fellowship and works with a sponsoring scientist who provides mentoring and guidance for the research project conducted by the applicant.

The Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) program is centered on the belief that research experience is one of the most effective avenues for attracting students to and retaining students in science and engineering, and for preparing them for careers in these fields. The REU Sites program aims to provide appropriate and valuable educational experiences for cohorts of undergraduate students through active participation in research projects with coherent intellectual themes. REU Sites projects feature high-quality interaction of groups of students with faculty and/or other research mentors and access to appropriate facilities and professional development opportunities.

The MSPRF and REU Sites programs support enhanced training through research involvement at the postdoctoral and undergraduate levels, respectively. In contrast, the Research Training Groups (RTG) program spans all levels of trainee seniority. The RTG program supports efforts to improve research training by involving undergraduate students, graduate students, postdoctoral associates, and faculty members in structured research groups centered on a common research theme. Projects supported by the RTG program are based on the research group model and necessarily include vertically-integrated activities that span the entire spectrum of educational levels from undergraduates through postdoctoral associates.

Please note that the deadline dates for submission of proposals in response to these specific solicitations vary and are posted on their respective program pages.

Unsolicited proposals that support the aim of the DMS Workforce program and that include, as a core component, research in the mathematical sciences conducted by trainees, should be submitted to the Mathematical Sciences Infrastructure Program.

