Synopsis
Proposals submitted to this program (including individual and collaborative proposals, GOALIs) must be submitted to the CHE Disciplinary Research Programs solicitation.

Exceptions:

RUI proposals must be submitted to the RUI Solicitation during the regular proposal submission window for this program.
Proposals submitted in response to another solicitation (CAREER) should follow the solicitation guidelines (e.g. CAREER)
Conference, workshop, EAGER, RAPID or RAISE proposals must be discussed with a Program Officer before submission, and then should only be submitted as instructed.
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Chemical Synthesis (SYN) Program supports experimental and computational research on the development of new and efficient synthetic methodologies and on the synthesis of complex and/or challenging chemical structures. Typical synthetic targets include novel structures (including natural products and biomolecules), molecules and structures displaying unique properties, or substances that provide pathways to discover and elucidate new phenomena. Examples of supported research areas include the development of innovative reagents, discovery of new synthetic methods, and synthesis of novel organic, organometallic, and inorganic structures. The development of automated synthesis methods is also supported. Research in this program will generate fundamental new knowledge of chemical synthesis, but also enable new discoveries and the development of transformative technologies in related fields. 

Through the Critical Aspects of Sustainability (CAS) program, the Division of Chemistry looks to support basic research aimed at improving the sustainability of resources for future generations while maintaining or improving current products within a global society. Submissions that address sustainability may include but are not limited to: the development of new synthetic methods using earth-abundant and inexpensive chemicals, fundamental studies that improve our understanding of rare earth elements; the conversion of non-petroleum based resources into useful building blocks; and new environmentally-friendly chemical syntheses that improve on current practice by requiring less energy, fresh water, reagents, and/or organic solvents. 

PIs are encouraged to monitor current funding priorities identified by the Foundation and the Executive and Legislative Branches, and to highlight relevant synergies in their Project Summaries and Program Descriptions.

The Chemical Synthesis Program does not support projects where the main objectives are to study the properties of target systems, even though they may contain a large synthetic component. Proposed studies of this nature may be directed to the Chemical Structure, Dynamics, and Mechanism-B (CSDM-B) Program. Investigators interested in developing novel synthetic approaches to macromolecular, supramolecular or nanoscale chemical structures should consult the Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry (MSN) Program. Projects developing syntheses of extended solids should consult the Division of Materials Research (DMR). Proposals that have a major focus on the design of new catalysts and study of catalytic reactions should be submitted to the Chemical Catalysis (CAT) Program. 

For recent awards made by the program, search NSF award database with the Program Element Code 6878.

What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)
Map of Recent Awards Made Through This Program
