Synopsis
Introduction to the Program:

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs focus on transforming scientific discovery into products and services with commercial potential and/or societal benefit. Unlike fundamental or basic research activities that focus on scientific and engineering discovery itself, the NSF SBIR/STTR programs support the creation of opportunities to move fundamental science and engineering out of the lab and into the market or other use at scale, through startups and small businesses representing deep technology ventures.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs fund research and development. The programs are designed to provide non-dilutive funding at the earliest stages of technology development.

Synopsis of Program:

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs support moving scientific excellence and technological innovation from the lab to the market. By investing federal research and development funds into startups and small businesses, NSF hopes to build a strong national economy and stimulate the creation of novel products, services, and solutions in the private sector; strengthen the role of small business in meeting federal research and development needs; increase the commercial application of federally supported research results; and develop and increase the US workforce, especially by fostering and encouraging participation by socially and economically disadvantaged and women-owned small businesses.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs solicit proposals from small businesses based on groundbreaking scientific discoveries or significant engineering breakthroughs consistent with NSF's mission to promote the progress of science; to advance the national health, prosperity, and welfare; and to secure the national defense.

The programs are governed by Public Law 114-328 (SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act of 2017). SBIR/STTR policy is provided by the Small Business Administration (SBA) through SBIR/STTR Policy Directive.

The NSF SBIR/STTR programs welcome proposals from many topics and do not have a specific technological focus. SBIR/STTR Program Directors work together in “clusters” around general areas of science, engineering or technology to manage proposals and the merit review process. These clusters encompass Biological and Life Sciences; Mathematics and Physical Sciences; Data and Computer Sciences; and Resilient and Sustainable Systems. The topics within each cluster are detailed on the program website, but are only meant to be suggestive of the types of topic areas that are anticipated. The program is also open to proposals focusing on technical and market areas not explicitly noted in the aforementioned topics; such proposals should be submitted to “Other Topics”. However, the NSF SBIR/STTR programs do not support clinical trials or proposals from companies whose commercialization pathway involves the production, distribution or sale by the company of chemical components, natural or synthetic variations thereof, or other derivatives related to Schedule I controlled substances. 

 
