Supports fundamental research on the physical and chemical phenomena that govern particulate and multiphase systems, including multiphase flow, transport in biological systems, particle science and technology, and interfacial dynamics.

Synopsis
The Particulate and Multiphase Processes program is part of the Transport Phenomena cluster, which also includes 1) the Combustion and Fire Systems program; 2) the Fluid Dynamics program; and 3) the Thermal Transport Processes program.

The goal of the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program is to support fundamental research on physico-chemical phenomena that govern particulate and multiphase systems, including flow of suspensions, drops and bubbles, granular and granular-fluid flows, behavior of micro- and nanostructured fluids, unique characteristics of active fluids, and self assembly/directed-assembly processes that involve particulates. The program encourages transformative research to improve our basic understanding of particulate and multiphase processes with emphasis on research that demonstrates how particle-scale phenomena affect the behavior and dynamics of larger-scale systems. Although proposed research should focus on fundamentals, a clear vision is required that anticipates how results could benefit important applications in advanced manufacturing, energy harvesting, transport in biological systems, biotechnology, or environmental sustainability. Collaborative and interdisciplinary proposals are encouraged, especially those that involve a combination of experiment with theory or modeling. 

Major research areas of interest in the program include:

Multiphase flow phenomena: Dynamics of particle/bubble/droplet systems, behavior of structured fluids (colloids/ferro-fluids), granular flows, rheology of multiphase systems, unique characteristics of active fluids, and novel approaches that relate micro- and nanoscale phenomena to macroscale properties and process-level variables.
Particle science and technology: Aerosols, production of particles and polymer-particle complexes with engineered properties, self-assembly, directed assembly, and template-directed assembly of particles into functional materials and devices.
Multiphase transport in biological systems: Analysis of physiological processes, applications of functionalized nanostructures in clinical diagnostics and therapeutics.
Interfacial transport: Dynamics of particles and macromolecules at interfaces, kinetics of adsorption and desorption of nanoparticles and surfactants and their spatial distributions at interfaces, complex molecular interactions at interfaces, formation of interfacial complexes that affect the dynamics of particles.
NOTE: Proposals that explore fluid-structure interactions involving electrodes in engineering applications such as energy storage should be directed to ENG/CBET Electrochemical Systems program. Proposals that involve drops or bubbles bouncing off solid surfaces should be directed toward ENG/CBET Fluid Dynamics program. Proposals that deal with engineered surfaces for carrying out chemical or biochemical reactions or separations should be directed to ENG/CBET Interfacial Engineering program. Proposals dealing mainly with particle synthesis may be more suitable for the ENG/CMMI Advanced Manufacturing program or the Division of Materials Research (DMR) in the Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS) Directorate.

Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered; however, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.

INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS

Proposals should address the novelty and/or potentially transformative nature of the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.

The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year (awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.

Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.   

Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.

Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID) and EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.

Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) will be returned without review.

 

 

