Synopsis
With this solicitation, the Division of Chemistry is piloting the removal of deadlines for the submission of proposals to the CLP, CSDM-A and CTMC Programs.

The no-deadline pilot seeks to assess the benefits and challenges of removing deadlines in proposal submission for the chemistry research community: the removal of deadlines on proposal submission is intended to allow principal investigators (PIs) more flexibility and better facilitate interdisciplinary research. It may, however, have unanticipated consequences for PIs, reviewers, and institutions.

This solicitation applies only to the Chemistry of Life Processes (CLP), Chemical Structure, Dynamics, and Mechanisms-A (CSDM-A) and Chemical Theory, Models and Computational Methods (CTMC) programs. Other than the following exceptions, all proposals submitted to the CLP, CSDM-A, and CTMC programs must be submitted through this solicitation, otherwise they will be returned without review.

Exceptions:

Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) proposals should be submitted through the CAREER solicitation (https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=503214) by the CAREER deadline date specified.

Facilitating Research at Primarily Undergraduate Institutions: Research in Undergraduate Institutions (RUI) and Research Opportunity Awards (ROA) proposals should be submitted through the RUI/ROA solicitation (https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5518). In addition to the requirements of the RUI program, proposals should follow the guidance in this solicitation. Proposals submitted through the RUI/ROA solicitation to the CLP, CSDM-A, and CTMC programs can be submitted at any time starting September 1, 2022.

Proposals for Early-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER), Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID), Research Advanced by Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering (RAISE), and conferences can be submitted anytime after consultation with the cognizant NSF Program Officer.

Supplemental funding requests to existing grants can be submitted anytime after consultation with the cognizant NSF Program Officer. Until this capability is implemented in Research.gov, supplemental funding requests must still be prepared and submitted via FastLane.
