ynopsis
All proposals submitted to this Program that are not governed by another solicitation (such as CAREER) must be submitted to the solicitation: Division of Materials Research: Topical Materials Research Programs (DMR:TMRP) (NSF 21-600). Proposals under this solicitation are accepted any time after October 15th, 2021.

Proposers should be aware that there is no change expected in the average time to decision and release of reviews. Considering that NSF’s fiscal year begins on October 1st and ends on September 30th, proposals submitted between February and August are more likely to be awarded in the following fiscal year.

The Metals and Metallic Nanostructures (MMN) Program supports fundamental research and education on the relationships between structure and properties of metals and their alloys. Research should advance fundamental materials science that will enable the development of metallic materials, especially from the micro- to sub-nanometer length scales, to optimize superior behaviors and enable the prediction of properties and performance. This program focuses on experimental research that especially takes advantage of advanced instrumentation while encouraging the synergistic use of theory, computation, and data analytics and/or machine learning. The program aims to advance the materials science of metals and alloys through transformative research on a diverse array of topics, including, but not limited to, phase transformations; grain and interphase boundary structures; oxidation, corrosion, and behavior in extreme environments; magnetic behavior and functional materials; mechanical behavior and structural materials; and complex alloys such as metallic glasses and multiprincipal-element alloys.  Within the context of societal challenges, proposals offering fundamental metals science approaches toward sustainable materials or more environmentally benign processes are welcome (they should be submitted with the prefix CAS in the title; see Critical Aspects of Sustainability).  Proposals involving collaboration with industry (GOALI) are also welcome.  Submitted proposals should clearly emphasize the contributions to fundamental materials science. 

Additional Information

Investigators are encouraged to include all anticipated broader impact activities in their initial proposals, rather than planning on supplemental funding requests. Examples of broader impact include: (1) the anticipated significance on science, engineering and/or technology including possible benefits to society, (2) plans for the dissemination, and (3) broadening participation of underrepresented minorities and/or excellence in training, mentoring, and/or teaching. Many successful proposals include at least one substantive broader impact activity.

PIs are encouraged to discuss intended chemical nanosynthesis efforts with both the Macromolecular, Supramolecular, and Nanochemistry (MSN) and the Solid State Materials Chemistry (SSMC) programs prior to proposal submission. Such proposals may either be transferred or reviewed jointly depending on the extent of alignment with the goals of both programs.

PIs are encouraged to discuss intended theory/computation-led efforts with the Condensed Matter and Materials Theory (CMMT) program prior to proposal submission. Such proposals may either be transferred or reviewed jointly depending on the extent of alignment with the goals of both programs.

The MMN program works closely with other programs within the Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS) and Engineering Directorates to accommodate the multidisciplinary nature of proposal submissions.

