Synopsis
The Division of Physics (PHY) supports physics research and the preparation of future scientists in the nation’s colleges and universities across a broad range of physics disciplines that span scales of space and time from the largest to the smallest and the oldest to the youngest.  The Division is comprised of disciplinary programs covering experimental and theoretical research in the following major subfields of physics: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics; Elementary Particle Physics; Gravitational Physics; Integrative Activities in Physics; Nuclear Physics; Particle Astrophysics; Physics at the Information Frontier; Physics of Living Systems; Plasma Physics; and Quantum Information Science. Principal Investigators (PIs) are encouraged to consider including specific efforts to increase diversity of the physics community and broaden participation of under-represented groups in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM). 

Additional Information

The Division of Physics strongly encourages single proposal submission for possible co-review rather than submission of multiple related proposals to several programs.

PIs considering submitting more than one proposal to this solicitation, or who already have an active PHY award, are encouraged to first consult with the relevant program officer(s) before preparing a new proposal. This does not apply to awards from or submissions to the MRI, REU, and/or center programs, or in cases of renewal proposals.

Due Dates

Full Proposal Deadline(s) (due by 5 p.m. submitter’s local time):

Program(s)

Deadline

Plasma Physics

Third Monday in November, e.g. November 15, 2021

AMO – Theory and Experiment

Gravitational Physics – Theory and Experiment

LIGO Research Support

Integrative Activities in Physics

Fourth Wednesday in November,

e.g. November 24, 2021

Nuclear Physics – Theory and Experiment

Elementary Particle Physics – Experiment

Particle Astrophysics – Experiment

First Tuesday in December, e.g. December 07, 2021

Elementary Particle Physics – Theory

Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology – Theory

Physics of Living Systems

Quantum Information Science

Second Tuesday in December,

e.g. December 14, 2021

