Supports research to deepen understanding of the U.S. and global economy from macro to micro scale, including all fields of economics such as macroeconomics, microeconomics, econometrics, economic theory, behavioral economics and empirical economics.

Synopsis
The Economics program supports research designed to improve the understanding of the processes and institutions of the U.S. economy and of the world system of which it is a part. This program also strengthens both empirical and theoretical economic analysis as well as the methods for rigorous research on economic behavior. It supports research in almost every area of economics, including econometrics, economic history, environmental economics, finance, industrial organization, international economics, labor economics, macroeconomics, mathematical economics, and public finance.

The Economics program welcomes proposals for individual or multi-investigator research projects, doctoral dissertation improvement awards, conferences, symposia, experimental research, data collection and dissemination, computer equipment and other instrumentation, and research experience for undergraduates. The program places a high priority on interdisciplinary research. Investigators are encouraged to submit proposals of joint interest to the Economics Program and other NSF programs and NSF initiative areas. The program places a high priority on broadening participation and encourages proposals from junior faculty, women, other underrepresented minorities, Research Undergraduate Institutions, and EPSCoR states.

The program also funds conferences and interdisciplinary research that strengthens links among economics and the other social and behavioral sciences as well as mathematics and statistics.

The Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants funding opportunity is designed to improve the quality of dissertation research. DDRIG awards provide funds for items not normally available through the student's university such as enabling doctoral students to undertake significant data-gathering projects and to conduct field research in settings away from their campus. DDRIGs do not provide cost-of-living or other stipends or tuition. Outstanding DDRIG proposals specify how the knowledge to be created advances economics science. 

Proposals for Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGS) in Economics should follow the directions for submissions in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp&WT.z_pims_id=5437”). The following bulleted items provide additional guidance concerning DDRIGs in Economics:

The dissertation advisor should be listed as the Principal Investigator and the student as the Co-Principal Investigator. It should be clear however that the proposal is written by, and the research conducted by, the student.
To assure that the proposal is appropriate for the Economics Program, the advisor of the doctoral student is strongly encouraged to contact one of the Economics Program Directors by e-mail prior to the preparation of the DDRIG proposal.
The Proposal Title should read, "Doctoral Dissertation Research in Economics: ...."
Use a clear and concise writing style. Reviewers will include economists from a variety of specialty areas. It is possible that no specialist from your particular area of research will be on the panel. Defining key terms and keeping your proposal free of jargon will ensure that all reviewers will be able to understand your proposal and evaluate it fairly.
One of the areas in which the proposal will be evaluated is your competence to carry out the research. It would be beneficial for you to include any other information that can help reviewers evaluate how well prepared you are to conduct the research.
DDRIG awards are designed to cover expenses such as travel to the research site, special equipment, and participation fees.
If you have additional questions, please contact one of the program directors listed above.
For additional funding opportunities, we invite you to also look at the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities web site.

 

 

 

 

