Supports research that increases understanding of how individuals, organizations and societies make decisions. Areas include judgment, decision analysis and aids, risk analysis and communication, public policy decision making, and management science.

Synopsis
The Decision, Risk and Management Sciences program (DRMS) supports scientific research directed at increasing the understanding and effectiveness of decision making by individuals, groups, organizations, and society. DRMS supports research with solid foundations in theories and methods of the social and behavioral sciences. This social and behavioral research advances knowledge, addresses fundamental scientific and societal issues, and has strong broader impacts. DRMS funds disciplinary and interdisciplinary research, doctoral dissertation research improvement grants (DDRIGs), and conferences in the areas of judgment and decision making; decision analysis and decision aids; risk analysis, perception, and communication; societal and public policy decision making; management science and organizational design. The program also supports projects with severe urgency with regard to availability of, or access to, data, facilities or specialized equipment, including quick-response research on natural or anthropogenic disasters, or other unanticipated events (Rapid Response Research – RAPID). The program also supports proof-of-concept, high-risk, projects that are potentially transformational (Early Concept Grants for Exploratory Research – EAGER). For detailed information concerning these two types of grants, please review Chapter II.E of the NSF PAPPG. Funded research must be grounded in theory and generalizable. Purely algorithmic management science proposals should be submitted to the Operations Engineering (OE) Program rather than to DRMS.

General Guidance concerning the DRMS Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGs) funding opportunity includes the following:

To assure that the proposal is appropriate for DRMS, the advisor of the doctoral student is strongly encouraged to contact one of the DRMS Program Directors by email prior to the preparation of the DDRIG proposal.
DRMS DDRIG awards have a recommended maximum duration of 12 months.
The proposal title should start with “DDRIG in DRMS:”.
On the FastLane Cover Sheet, the advisor should be listed as the Principal Investigator (PI) and the doctoral dissertation student as the Co-PI.
DDRIG awards are designed to cover expenses such as travel to the research site, special equipment, and participation fees.
DRMS does not provide general stipends, tuition, or cost-of-living support for DDRIG awards.
Your DDRIG proposal's project description should be essentially a research design (statement of the research problem, literature review, hypotheses, research site, data to be collected, methods of analysis, and schedule).
Outstanding DDRIG proposals specify how the knowledge to be created advances our theoretical understanding of the subject.
For additional funding opportunities, we invite you to also look at the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities (SMA) web site.

                                                                                                                                                                                 

