Synopsis
Materials Research is the field of science where physics, chemistry, materials science, and engineering naturally converge in the pursuit of the fundamental understanding of the properties of materials and the phenomena they host. Materials are abundant and pervasive, serving as critical building blocks in technology and innovation. Materials Research impacts life and society, as it shapes our understanding of the material world and enables significant advances spanning the range from nanoelectronics to health-related fields. The development and deployment of advanced materials are major drivers of U.S. economic growth.

Research supported by the Division of Materials Research (DMR) focuses on advancing the fundamental understanding of materials, materials discovery, design, synthesis, characterization, properties, and materials-related phenomena. DMR awards enable understanding of the electronic, atomic, and molecular structures, mechanisms, and processes that govern nanoscale to macroscale morphology and properties; manipulation and control of these properties; discovery of emerging phenomena of matter and materials; and creation of novel design, synthesis, and processing strategies that lead to new materials with unique characteristics. These discoveries and advancements transcend traditional scientific and engineering disciplines. DMR supports research and education activities in the United States through funding of individual investigators, teams, centers, facilities, and instrumentation. Projects supported by DMR are not only essential for the development of future technologies and industries that address societal needs, but also for the preparation of the next generation of materials researchers.

This solicitation applies to seven DMR Topical Materials Research Programs (TMRPs): Biomaterials (BMAT), Ceramics (CER), Condensed Matter Physics (CMP), Electronic and Photonic Materials (EPM), Metals and Metallic Nanostructures (MMN), Polymers (POL), and Solid State and Materials Chemistry (SSMC). The Condensed Matter and Materials Theory (CMMT) program has its own solicitation. Applicants to CMMT must apply through solicitation NSF 20-582.

All proposals submitted to these seven DMR-TMRPs (other than the following exceptions) must be submitted through this solicitation, otherwise they will be returned without review. Exceptions are proposals through mechanisms that have their own solicitation, such as the Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) and the Facilitating Research at Primarily Undergraduate Institutions: Research in Undergraduate Institutions and Research Opportunity Awards (RUI/ROA) program. CAREER proposals must be submitted to the CAREER program by the deadline date specified in the program solicitation. RUI/ROA proposals have no deadline: they should be submitted through the RUI/ROA solicitation, but are subject to the same submission constraints as other proposals submitted to the DMR-TMRPs. Proposals for EAGER, RAPID, RAISE, and conferences, as well as supplemental funding requests for existing grants, are not subject to the limitations in this solicitation and may be submitted any time after consultation with and approval from the cognizant Program Officer(s). EAGER/RAPID/RAISE and conference proposals, as well as requests for supplemental funding submitted without prior approval by a Program Officer will be returned without review.


