NIFA’s Bioproduct Pilot Program seeks to study the benefits of using materials derived from covered agricultural commodities for manufacture of construction and consumer products.

This new program, which is authorized under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, directs the USDA to partner with no less than one qualified institution to support the scale-up of sustainable bioproduct manufacturing, with the goal of providing a low-cost alternative to conventional products. A total of up to $5 million is available for each of FY 2022 and FY 2023.

In collaboration with USDA Rural Development’s BioPreferred program, NIFA will be seeking research proposals that explore the benefits of bioproducts in relation to their:

Cost savings relative to other commonly used alternative materials;
Greenhouse gas emission reductions and other environmental benefits relative to their commonly used alternative materials;
Lifecycle and longevity-extending characteristics relative to other commonly used alternative materials;
Lifecycle and longevity-reducing characteristics relative to other commonly used alternative materials;
Landfill quantity and waste management cost reductions;
Product development and production scale-up; and
Any other benefits that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
How to Apply
Please review the Bioproduct Pilot Program (BPP) Request for Applications for more information about the program, including eligibility requirements and submission deadlines.

Program staff are also inviting prospective applicants to join an informational webinar on July 14 at 2 p.m. Central to learn more about the program and ask questions. Registration required.

Why Bioproducts?
NIFA’s Bioproduct Pilot Program presents a unique opportunity to spur economic activity in the nation’s rural areas while lowering commercialization risks associated with bringing biobased products to market.

The pilot program’s exploration into the viability of bioproducts also helps to further USDA’s departmentwide effort to develop a more circular economy, where finite resources are not just extracted and consumed but also regenerated in a sustainable manner. Adopting a more circular economy ensures that wealth and other economic benefits in the form of jobs and other opportunities are created — and stay in — rural communities.

Definitions and Other Details
Construction product: any article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed for use during the construction, maintenance, or preservation of a highway, road, street, bridge, building, dam, port, or airport construction project.

Consumer product: any article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed:

for sale to a consumer for use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise; or
 for the personal use, consumption, or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise; and
A consumer product is also defined as any product or product category described in subparagraphs (A) through (I) of section 3(a)(5) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(5)).

Covered agricultural commodity: any agricultural commodity, food, feed, fiber, livestock, oil, or a derivative thereof, that the Secretary determines to have been used in the production of materials that have demonstrated market viability and benefits (as described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b)) as of the date of enactment of this Act.

Qualified institution: a bioproducts research facility that:

is funded, in part, by a state;
is located within a reasonable distance, not to exceed three miles, of the primary residence hall of an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)));
provides students opportunities to engage in research activities; and
provides opportunities for an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a))) to collaborate with private enterprise.