The Crop Protection and Pest Management (CPPM) program addresses high priority issues related to pests (including insects, nematodes, pathogens, and weeds) and their management using IPM approaches at the state, regional and national levels.

The CPPM program supports projects that will increase food security and respond effectively to other major societal challenges with comprehensive IPM approaches that are economically viable, ecologically prudent, and safe for human health. The CPPM program addresses pest management challenges with new and emerging technologies. The outcomes of the CPPM program are effective, affordable, and environmentally sound IPM practices and strategies supporting more vital communities.

The CPPM program provides support in three program areas:

1) Applied Research and Development Program Area (ARDP) - The ARDP funds projects for the development of new IPM tactics, technologies, practices, and strategies through research (single-function) projects. ARDP also funds IPM adoption through research-led projects and IPM implementation through extension-led projects.

2) Extension Implementation Program Area (EIP) - The EIP funds projects based on combinations of primary and secondary priorities intended to increase IPM implementation among the clientele served. EIP applications do not need to represent the entire scope of IPM at an institution, but should represent a reasonable proportion of the institution’s IPM programming. Activities in EIP should implement new IPM strategies and improve implementation of known IPM strategies.

3) Regional Coordination Program Area (RCP) - The RCP funds projects to increase coordination and improve efficiency of IPM research and extension efforts; facilitate collaboration across states, disciplines, and purposes; and promote further development and adoption of IPM through regional pest management information networks, collaborative team building and broad-based stakeholder participation. The desired result of these efforts is broader implementation of research findings.

These three program areas support a wide spectrum of projects – from the discovery of IPM knowledge through research and development, to extension activities and implementation – all linked together through regional and national coordination, team-building and stakeholder engagement. Together the three program areas represent a comprehensive approach for developing IPM practices and strategies and implementing this new knowledge across many environments through a coordinated national network, producing positive outcomes for society by applying evidence-based science.

PROGRAM TYPE
Grant Program
CONTACT
Vijay Nandula
PROGRAM SPECIFIC RESOURCES
CPPM FY 2022 FAQs, Crop Protection Focus Areas, Crop Protection Listening Sessions, 2014 RFA Briefing
FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES
Crop Protection and Pest Management, Agriculture and Food Research Initiative - Foundational and Applied Science Program, Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) , Organic Agriculture Research and Extension Initiative , Organic Transitions (ORG)
EXTERNAL RESOURCES
Regional Integrated Pest Management Center-North Central Regional Integrated Pest Management Center-Northeastern Regional Integrated Pest Management Center-Southern Regional Integrated Pest Management Center-Western Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program (SARE)
RELATED INFORMATION
TOPIC
Crop Production, Pest Management, Nematology