The Adams Fellowships Program was established jointly by the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities and the late Mr. Marcel Adams of Canada. Since its inception in spring 2005, the program has been administered by the Academy and underwritten by Mr. Adams.
To the Steering and Approval Committee of the Adams Fellowship Program
 
The prestigious Adams Fellowships are designated for outstanding Israeli doctoral students in the exact sciences, mathematics and computer science and engineering. Thus far, they have been awarded to 149 promising young researchers in seventeen cycles. Prof. Moshe Oren, Academy Member and Professor of Molecular Biology at the Weizmann Institute, is the current chairperson of the program’s Steering and Approval Committee.
 
Adams Fellowships are granted each year to about seven doctoral students in the second year of their doctoral studies, for periods of up to four consecutive academic years. Candidates are submitted by the academic institutions from among their students. Fellowship recipients are exempted by their institutions from tuition.
 
Today each fellowship is in the amount of NIS 100,000 per year. In addition, the Adams Fellowship Program allots each fellow up to $US 3,000 per year of the fellowship for active participation in international scientific conferences and workshops, research collaboration or travel to interview for postdoctoral positions abroad, when their travel will contribute meaningfully to furthering their professional careers.
 
Application is made solely through the rectors of Israel’s research universities. The careful screening processes conducted by the universities and the Academy's professional committee for the program ensure that the grantees represent the elite of Israel's future scientists in their fields. The 149 fellows to date – 106 men and 43 women – include 35 in the fields of medicine and the life sciences, 40 in mathematics and computer science, 26 in physics, 20 in electrical engineering, 16 in chemistry, 2 in nano-science, 3 in mechanical engineering, 3 in earth and environmental sciences and one each in evolution, solar energy, civic engineering and aerodynamics/space.
 
The Adams Fellows, a cadre of Israel's most outstanding young researchers, boast impressive achievements in research and publications in the most prominent professional journals, such as Science, PNAS and Cell. They have been accepted for postdoctoral training in the world’s most prestigious institutions, such as Harvard, Princeton, MIT, Yale and the Broad Institute, and they are sought out to fill faculty positions in Israel and abroad.
 
As of August 2021, the program had 123 graduates, 57 of whom have returned to faculty positions in Israel. 9 hold faculty positions abroad, 22 are in the high-tech/bio-tech industries in Israel, 2 are in industry abroad, 2 are MD/PhD researchers at Beilinson Hospital – Rabin Medical Center, 3 are in postdoctoral positions in Israel, and 21 are still in postdoctoral positions abroad. 5 graduates postponed their post-docs because of the Corona Pandemic, one postponed because of a traffic accident and one is completing her MD.

The following doctoral students were awarded Adams Fellowships for 2020–2021:
Ms. Dalya Baron, Tel Aviv University, Astrophysics
Mr. Yonadav Barry Ginat, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Physics
Mr. Gil Bashan, Bar-Ilan University, Electrical Engineering
Ms. Dana Binyamin, Bar-Ilan University, Medicine
Mr. Naom Lifshitz, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Mathematics
Mr. Dan Liraz, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Nano-Electronics
Mr. Naom Shahar, Tel Aviv University, Plant Sciences and Food Security
 
The following doctoral students were awarded Adams Fellowships for 2021–2022:
Mr. Yonatan Hamo, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Chemistry
Ms. Noam Harel, Tel Aviv University, Life Sciences
Ms. Noy Nehmad, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Chemistry
Ms. Efrat Pahima, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Chemistry
Ms. Inbal Weisbord, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Chemical Engineering
Mr. Eyal Weiss, Bar-Ilan University, Computer Science
Mr. Yoav Zigdon, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Physics
The program’s bilingual (English/Hebrew) website contains information on the fellows of previous cycles and the personal pages of all current fellows and alumni. It also displays general information, Calls for Applications and detailed reports on the program's activities, including videos of the lectures at program-sponsored seminars and photographs taken at seminars, conferences and field trips. 
 
To the Adams Fellowships website: http://adams.academy.ac.il/
 
In order to create a young science community, Adams Fellows and alumni are provided with the opportunity to create friendships among themselves, at meetings, lectures by world-renowned scientists, and annual conferences and seminars, all of which take place at the Israel Academy. They also participate in field trips and in Science Communication Workshops that prepare them to present their research at international conferences.
 
In the Spring of 2020 the Adams Seminar was postponed, due to the Corona Pandemic. In September 2020, since the pandemic had lessened, a daylong field trip to Ancient Acre was held, with the participation of the active fellows and some alumni. The tour was conducted according to the Ministry of Health's instructions, and despite the high temperatures that day, the participants wore masks and ate both breakfast and lunch outside. The tour was guided by Dr. Eliezer Stern, the Research Authority's official archaeologist for the region of Acre and the Western Galilee, who in person conducted the digs and made the amazing discoveries of Ancient Acre.
 
At the end of January 2021, the Adams Fellows participated in three Science Communications Workshops, in order to help them present their research effectively at international science conferences and job interviews. The workshops took place in zoom for three days, under the guidance of Inbar Amir, a specialist at presenting to audiences. The Fellows were divided into groups of seven, with each group "meeting" for an intensive day to learn how to "translate" in-depth, complicated research, with many layers and nuances, into an effective story to captivate the audience. Their study was not only theoretic, but included lots of practice. All those participating agreed that the experience was very exhausting but very positive!
 
The Adams Seminar for 2021 took place on August 18, 2021 with the participation of Sylvan Adams who made Aliya to Israel with his wife Margaret in 2016 and settled in Tel Aviv. Israel Academy President Prof. Nili Cohen greeted the audience, and Adams Committee Chair Prof. Moshe Oren delivered the opening address. The guest speaker was Prof. Daniel Chamovitz, President of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, who lectured on "WHY WE CARE ABOUT WHAT PLANTS KNOW". Fellowships were granted to the seven new winners and to the seven who won fellowships last year, but whose ceremony was postponed due to Corona. At the awarding ceremony, Sylvan Adams greeted the grantees on behalf of the Adams Family. Academy President Prof. Cohen presented Sylvan with a gift, a beautiful photo album in memory of his father Marcel Adams, who passed away peacefully in his home this year, at the age of 100.