IASH Fellowships for Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposia Participants
The Kavli American-Israeli Frontiers of Science (FoS) Symposia are a series of interdisciplinary binational conferences which bring together outstanding young scientists from a wide range of scientific disciplines from the US and Israel. The Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposia format allows for the exchange of ideas across scientific disciplines and provides opportunities for future binational collaborations and networking. Further information on the Kavli Frontiers of Science program may be found on the Academy's website, here: https://www.academy.ac.il/RichText/GeneralPage.aspx?nodeId=917
 
The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities is offering a limited number of fellowships that support collaborations between American and Israeli Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposia participants.
 
The Call for submission and guidelines can be downloaded here:
Call for Submission of Requests to the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities IASH Fellowship for Kavli FoS Symposia Participants 
 
Goals of the IASH fellowships for Kavli FoS symposia participants
The general aim of the IASH fellowship program is to enable young scientists from Israel and the US to initiate long-term bi-national collaborations in order to strengthen the scientific relationship between the two countries. The IASH fellowships for Kavli FoS symposia participants are intended to support working visits between the collaborating scientists, initiate scientific projects or meetings, write joint scientific publications, etc.
 
Application requirements
The applicant must have participated in one of the Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposia in the US or Israel. Cooperating partners must have participated in the same symposium.
The collaboration must include at least one Israeli scientist and one US scientist.
The visiting scientist's application for funding should be submitted at least three months before the planned working visit.
Applications must be submitted within two years after the conclusion of the Kavli Frontiers of Science Symposium in which the collaborators participated.
Retroactive applications (i.e., for earlier visits) will not be considered.
 
Funding allowance
The fellowship program allocates up to USD 5,000 for the visiting scientist's travel (economy class), accommodation and other visit-related expenses incurred for working visits in the partner country
The IASH fellowship for Kavli FoS symposia participants may be used for more than one trip of any of the collaborating parties. The visiting scientist can't be additionally funded for the same activity. The funds may not be used for any additional costs, such as research expenses or equipment.
 
Documents to be submitted (in Word or PDF format only)
A completed application form (link to application form here).
CV and list of publications.
A description (up to 5 pages) of the research proposal of the collaborating partners, the objectives of the visit and the planned schedule. The description should include the anticipated benefits of the collaboration and the visit.
Proposed budget (with details of travel, accommodation and other expenses).
Invitation letter of the host scientist.
Please address queries to Dr. Yael Ben Haim, yaelb@academy.ac.il
 
Selection of Recipients
The applications will be reviewed by a committee of the Israel Academy and candidates will be selected on the basis of scientific excellence.
 
Reporting
At the end of the visit and no later than 2 months after the visit is over, a scientific report at a scope of up to 3 pages, as well as a financial report, must be submitted to the IASH Secretary of Natural Sciences Division. Should the collaboration yield a scientific paper, a copy of the published article should be sent to the IASH, with the abstract and link to it.