This incentive program was established as an urgent response to those seeking work due to the Corona crisis.
The program finances swift training and placement of workers in high-demand technology professions in all fields of the industry.

* This program is an extension of the Human Capital for High-Tech Fund.

Goal of the incentive program:
To significantly increase the number of employees in technology professions in Israel via swift training and placement programs. The current imperative is to offer programs that can be implemented quickly, with preference to involvement and specialization provided by the employer. Preference will also be given to programs providing a solution for a large number of people seeking employment in the following professions:

R&D positions such as Software Engineer, Algorithm Programmer, AI and ML specialist (Data Scientist), and others.
R&D supportive positions such as QA Automation and DevOps The full list of professions is published on the Authority website.
Who is the incentive program for?
Training frameworks and employers (including a group of employers interested in collaboration) offering training and placement programs in a range of technology professions in R&D fields and in R&D supportive professions as detailed on the Innovation Authority website.
The incentive program allows to offer flexible models of training and placement such as physical/
online/combined training:

Training and placement in technology professions in the industry
On the Job Training (OJT) - Direct training and placement by the employer
What do you get?
The grants are awarded according to the different groups of technology professions, as detailed on the Innovation Authority website, as follows:

Training grant: NIS 5,000-11,000
Placement grant: NIS 11,000-24,000
* Additional grants will be awarded for high-salary placement.
Why should you apply to this incentive program?
Not just core high-tech professions: the program offers substantial grants for training and placement in diverse technology professions that are not considered core high high-tech professions, thus enabling to train thousands of unemployed people and place them in a quick and efficient procedure in a range of sectors.

Support that is a mark of quality: support from the Innovation Authority that is provided only following a comprehensive professional assessment of the project, serves as a mark of quality and guarantees that the program’s graduates receive the best tools and skills to optimally integrate into the industry.

A flexible and modular program: grants are awarded based on success at each stage.