This incentive program is the result of collaboration between the Innovation Authority and the National Insurance Institute funds. The program aims to encourage R&D of assistive technologies for the disabled in order to allow them equal opportunity and full integration in society and the labor market.
Goal of the incentive program:
Assistive technologies possess the potential to generate dramatic change in the lives of people with disabilities and to enable them to conduct healthy, independent, and respectable lives as well as integrating and contributing in all spheres of life: employment, education, leisure etc. The program’s goal is to encourage R&D of industrial products that provide technological solutions for the disabled and thereby enable them a normative lifestyle and integration into society and the labor market.

Who is the incentive program for?
Israeli companies and nonprofit organizations interested in developing technologies that serve groups with physical, emotional, or cognitive disabilities, who collectively represent up to 5% of the population.
What do you get?
For requests of up to NIS 500,000 – a grant of 75% of the approved budget.
For requests of between NIS 500,000 – NIS 1.5 million:
A grant of 40%, 50%, or 60% of the approved budget.
An additional 10% for Area ‘A’ Development Regions
Startups owned by entrepreneurs from a group with preferential financing terms will be given the option of a grant of 75% in the first year and 70% during the second year.
* Groups with preferential financing terms are defined as those of minorities and/or ultra-Orthodox and/or women (where at least 33% of the company’s share capital is held by an entrepreneur from this group), all subject to the regulations of Benefit Program No. 1.

Why should you apply to this incentive program?
Support at a higher rate than usual: R&D projects in this incentive program receive greater than usual support from the Innovation Authority.
Exemption from royalty repayment for NGOs: Nonprofit organizations are exempt from paying royalties, usually mandated in most of the Authority’s incentive programs.