The program encourages applied research with innovative technological feasibility that originated in academia and is brought to a stage where an Israeli industrial company can further develop and commercialize it.
Goal of the incentive program

Bridging the knowledge gap between academia and the needs of the industry, thus bringing the project to the level of interest of business entities up to a commercialization agreement with the research institution; Alternatively, the project will be accompanied by the support of a corporation that sees business potential for project achievements. The main objective is to reach significant milestones at the end of the project, which will enable an industrial entity to sign an agreement with the research institution to commercialize the technology. Therefore, the addition of an accompanied corporation will enable the academia, at any stage of the project, to increase the commercialization chances of its technological ideas in Israeli industry.

Who is the incentive program for?

Research groups from all research institutions in Israel - universities, colleges and medical centers who wish to carry out applied research as a continuation of basic research conducted by the same research group. The research must demonstrate innovation in terms of industrial application, and its results should be applicable in Israeli industry and provide high added value to the entire economy.

What do you get?

A research institution not supported by a corporation will receive support of 75% or 85%, up to a maximum of NIS 440,000 per year for a single research institution or up to NIS 660,000 a year for cooperation between research institutions.

A project of a research institution accompanied by a corporation will grant the research institution with a grant of 80% or 90% of the approved budget, up to a maximum of NIS 550,000 for a single research institution or up to NIS 700,000 per year for a collaboration between research institutions.

The accompanied corporation serves as a partner in providing professional guidance and assistance in determining the research objectives and participates in financing at a rate of 10% of the cost of the project.
At the end of the research, the accompanying corporation receives the first right to negotiate the commercialization agreement with the research institution.
Support with or without corporate accompaniment will be granted for a period of one or two years, with an option for an additional one year in extreme cases at a reduced grant rate of 66% or 75% of the approved budget.

Projects dealing with the development of drugs will be able to apply for funding for a preliminary year, according to the budgets mentioned above.

Recipients of the grant are exempt from repayment of royalties.

Why should you apply for this incentive program?

Research institutions:
Financial support: funding support for research processes increases the likelihood of performing a successful applied research
Corporate support: Professional support for research processes that significantly increase future commercialization opportunities
All rights to knowledge gained in the research are retained by the applicant institution
 
Accompanying corporations:
The ability to influence, direct and support groundbreaking academic research that will contribute to the future activity of the corporation
Initial right to negotiate the commercialization of the research results with the research institution
Application development in return for low financial investment
Program requirements:

The research institution shall have sole ownership and property rights of the knowledge created by the basic research and its commercialization, without any additional factor having the right to possess this knowledge
The research should be innovative and preliminary in terms of industrial application, its results should be applicable in Israeli industry and have high added value to the entire economy
The research institution will report regularly (every quarter or every six months) on the progress of the project to the Incentive Track's and to the Innovation Authority - the accounting department
Research support will be provided for a duration of a year or two, and under extreme conditions for a third year. In the case of drugs development, in isolated cases where an advance year will be required, the track will allow support of up to three years
The Company must act in accordance with the reporting, registration, royalty payment and preservation of intellectual property requirements. Full details on these requirements is available on the Hebrew website 
Criteria for evaluating a request:

High technological innovation based on basic preliminary research conducted by the applicant institution.
Potential of the research program to develop into applied research for the industry in Israel.
Chances of commercializing the products of the research program and its inherent economic potential 
Research program's contribution to the industrial development in Israel.
Quality of existing conditions for carrying out the research program and the time-period that the researcher is prepared to allocate to the research.
Calls for Proposals schedule:

Open Calls for Proposals submissions' due dates:

March 20th, 2019
July 22nd, 2019
November 13th, 2019
Applications must be submitted by 23:59 according to the dates indicated above.
Technical support will be given up to 15:00 on the last day of submission for each submission period. 
Tardy submissions will not be accepted.

For further information and requried documentation, please refer to the Hebrew version