The Back to Tech Incentive Program (formerly: The National Program for the Return of Israeli Academics) seeks to increase the number of skilled workers in the Israeli high-tech industry with Israeli technology professionals living abroad who have accumulated knowledge and experience in the global high-tech industry. The program is for Israelis seeking to integrate into the industry in Israel while maintaining a continuous dialogue with employers interested in employing highquality and experienced personnel.
The program operates in conjunction with many high-tech companies, the defense industries, and other sectors seeking to integrate skilled high-tech personnel in the various professions. The list of employers participating in the program is posted on the Authority website.

Goal of the incentive program:
To increase the number of skilled personnel in the Israeli high-tech industry with Israeli technology professionals living abroad who have accumulated knowledge and experience in the high-tech industry.

Who is the incentive program for?

Candidates: returning Israeli technology professionals who have accumulated knowledge and experience in technology fields abroad, and who have the potential to integrate back into the hightech industry in Israel.
Employers: in the Israeli high-tech industry who are interested in employing high-quality personnel with international experience upon their return to Israel from abroad.
What do you get?

Employers: high-quality skilled personnel with experience in a range of technological fields who can occupy development roles in the company.
Candidates: work at one of Israel’s leading high-tech companies.
The registration forms can be found on the Innovation Authority website. When registering, please include a C.V. and summary of your vocational experience. After declaring that you plan to return to Israel during the coming year or that you have returned during the last year, your summary will be sent discretely and free of charge to employers in the Israeli high-tech industry. Upon completing the registration, you will be allocated a password that will enable you access to your personal area on the website and update your details.
Why should you apply to this incentive program?

Connections ahead of your return to Israel: the program will assist in establishing connections between Israeli technology professionals living abroad who are interested in returning and reintegrating into the sector in Israel, and high-tech companies in Israel seeking to employ highquality and experienced technology personnel. 
Further details:  Backtotech@innovationisrael.org.il