This program incentivizes applied research with innovative technological feasibility originating in academia that is advanced to the stage at which an Israeli industrial company will adopt it to develop a commercial product.
Goal of the Incentive Program:
To bridge the knowledge gap between academia and the industry’s needs, with the option of leading a project to significant milestones, thereby attracting the interest of business entities and, ultimately, achieve a commercialization agreement between the two parties. Alternatively, the project may be accompanied by a corporation that envisions its subsequent commercial potential. Adding a corporation to the consortium will therefore allow the research institution, at all stages of the project, to increase its chances for commercialization in Israeli industry.

Who is the incentive program for?
Research groups from all Israeli research institutions – universities, colleges, and medical centers that seek to conduct applied research, building upon prior basic research conducted in researchgroups.
The research must be innovative and original in terms of industrial application and its results should be applicable to industries in Israel and potentially have high added value for the entire economy.
What do you get?
Financial support in this program (with or without the guidance of a corporation) is exempt from repayment of royalties and will be awarded for a period of 1 or 2 years according to the various funding tracks detailed below. In exceptional cases, the support may be extended to a third year with a reduced grant of 66% or 75% of the approved budget.
Note: Projects engaged in pharmaceutical development can submit a request to fund a preliminary year, according to the funding tracks detailed below.
Research Institutions without the support of a corporation will receive:

An institution operating alone will receive support of 75% or 85%, up to a maximum sum of NIS 440,000 a year.
Two collaborating research institutions will receive support of 75% or 85%, up to NIS 660,000 a year (each institution may request a maximum of NIS 400,000 a year).
Three collaborating institutions will receive support of 75% or 85%, up to NIS 770,000 a year (each institution may request a maximum of NIS 400,000 a year).
 Research Institutions operating with the support of a corporation will receive:

A single institution operating with a corporation will receive support of 80% or 90% of the approved budget, the maximum scope of which is NIS 550,000.
Two collaborating research institutions will receive support of 80% or 90% of the approved budget, the maximum scope of which is NIS 700,000 a year (each institution may request a maximum of NIS 500,000 a year).
Three collaborating institutions will receive support of 80% or 90% of the approved budget, the maximum scope of which is NIS 810,000 a year (each institution may request a maximum of NIS 500,000 a year).
The role of the corporation supporting these projects:

To serve as a partner in professional guidance and in determining research goals. The corporation will contribute 10% of the project›s cost.
Upon completion of the research, the corporation will receive first rights in negotiations with the research institution on the commercialization agreement.
* In addition to the grant, projects approved by the Technology Infrastructure Division›s committee may also receive support from a commercial technology expert to accelerate chances of achieving commercialization. This benefit is subject to approval from the Technological Infrastructure Division's committee. A request for changes must be submitted to receive this benefit to which a waiver and disclaimer must also be added.

Why should you apply for this incentive program?
For research institutions:

Financial support for funding research processes, thus increasing the chance of success of the applied research.
Corporate support for the research processes, thus significantly increasing future commercialization prospects.
All rights to the knowledge gained during the research belong exclusively to the research institute applying for the grant.
Projects approved for receiving support of a commercial technology expert will receive this support to adapt the approved R&D plan to the product›s needs and industry requirements. This support also enables to establish connections with entities in the industry that can assist in helping the plan reach commercial development in the Israeli industry.
For the accompanying corporation:

The ability to influence, direct, and support groundbreaking academic research that will contribute to the future activity of the corporation.
First rights in negotiations with the research institution for a commercialization agreement.
Applied development in exchange for modest financial investment.