The R&D employees in Israel’s high-tech industry are one of the most important resources preserving the State of Israel’s leading position and competitiveness, thereby contributing greatly to its economy.
The Societal Challenges Division of the Innovation Authority has designed a new incentive program aimed at sustaining these capabilities and at offering a solution to the challenges facing the Israeli hightech sector. This program supports a range of innovative solutions that will assist in the building of an infrastructure for high-quality personnel as a necessary condition to creating whole companies and sustaining the Israeli high-tech industry.

Goal of the incentive program:
To advance programs operating in the recruitment, sorting, training, internship, and placement of new and existing employees in the high-tech industry (with an emphasis on R&D positions).

Who is the incentive program for?
Companies and NGOs offering various human capital programs designed for the high-tech industry.
What do you get?
Programs in the establishment / initial stage:
Requests for a budget of up to NIS 1 million.
Approved requests will receive a grant of 50%, 60%, or 70% of the approved budget, according to the committee’s decision.
Programs in the growth / scale up stage:
Requests for a budget of up to NIS 15 million.
Approved requests will receive a grant of 30%, 40%, or 50%* of the approved budget, according to the committee’s decision.
* In special cases, in which the research committee will decide that the program’s innovation and uniqueness are exceptional, it may approve a special grant of 60% or 70% of the approved budget of programs in the growth stage.

Why should you apply to this incentive program?
To influence the high-tech industry: an opportunity to offer innovative and ambitious solutions to human capital challenges identified on the ground and thereby, to influence the Israeli high-tech industry.

Attractive financing model: the program awards significant financial benefits and offers participation in risks involved in recruitment and training.

Repaying the grant subject to designated goals: a company receiving approval for its request will not be obligated to return the grant to the Innovation Authority, subject to meeting goals and milestones as defined by the Research Committee.

Quality mark support: support from the Innovation Authority that is provided only following a comprehensive professional assessment of the project, serves as a mark of quality for companies in the industry and makes it easier for them to develop in the long-term.