The incentive program supports Israeli companies’ technological pilot programs in different fields, that will be conducted at selected foreign entities' Beta sites or that will be based on their capabilities, data, or information. This incentive is made possible by a financial grant funded by the Innovation Authority to help share the risk involved in funding the project.
Products submitted as part of this incentive program must be ready for testing (after proof of feasibility and development of most of the product) and without additional significant R&D content.

Goal of the incentive program:
To encourage collaborations with foreign entities for development, application, and proof of value of
innovative technologies in different fields. The program aims to help Israeli companies grow and increase
their competitiveness in the global market by establishing strategic connections with overseas entities,
access to real international conditions, proving their products, breakthroughs and scale-up of their products
in global markets.

Who is the incentive program for?

Israeli technology companies with products ready for trial that are interested in testing them via international collaboration with foreign entities. The relevant technological fields are detailed in the calls for proposals according to the type of participating entity.
What do you get?

Financial support of up to 50% of the Israeli company’s approved R&D expenditure.
Companies operating in National Development Zones are eligible for 10% additional support.
Companies operating in the areas around the Gaza Strip are eligible for 25% additional support.
Assistance and support from the selected entity partnering the project in the form of consultation, services, and resources. This diverse support can include access to data, production lines, complex infrastructures, unique expertise and skills, allocation of technological or business consultants to guide and direct the Israeli company, and more.
The incentive program has no funding cap.