The huge demand for experts in advanced technology professions requires innovative models for training experts in this field and for upgrading skilled professionals already employed in the high-tech industry.
This incentive program supports the creation of a joint advanced training framework for engineers in high-tech companies, led by the industry, in advanced development professions.

The Innovation Authority supports a group of high-tech companies (at least five) that will join forces and offer training in advanced development professions for their engineers and development personnel, simultaneously to their work in the industry. The training may be based on external and internal professional entities and will also include individual components for each company as well as open elements to develop Israel’s advanced technologies communities. The Innovation Authority will finance 66% of the winning offers’ training expenses, up to a budget of NIS 2 million a year for a period of three years.

The incentive program is open to training proposals in all fields of advanced technology required for the industry, and especially in the following fields:

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Bio-Convergence – biologically inspired engineering
Smart Robotics
Semiconductor design and development
Requests may be submitted in other fields with reasoning and justification regarding their relevance to the industry.
Goal of the incentive program:
To offer a solution for the shortage in skilled personnel in advanced development professions needed by high-tech companies.
To prepare the economy for the future waves of technology: creating reserves of leading personnel.
To create an innovative model for training engineers in the industry (life-long learning).
To create a new collaborative training model that is also suitable for small and medium-sized companies.
To allow spillover of knowledge, to create a network and community around the field of technological knowledge.
Who is the incentive program for?
Israeli high-tech companies owned by an Israeli parent company or foreign parent company.
What do you get?
A grant of NIS 2-6 million for a workshop for a duration of 3 years.
Why should you apply to this incentive program?
Low risk: The Innovation Authority finances 66% of the activity, including the salary of the group’s director.
Pooling resources: dividing the efforts and resources among several high-tech companies so that the whole is greater than the sum of all the individual parts.
Tailored training: a study program that is adapted to the needs of the participating companies.
Community network: creating a community network between the participants around a technological field of knowledge.