The incentive program supports Israeli companies’ technology pilot programs in different fields that will be conducted at foreign companies or that will be based on their capabilities, data, or information. The program grants Israeli companies an opportunity to work with selected corporations and a financial incentive funded by the Innovation Authority to share the risk in funding the project.
Products submitted as part of this incentive program must be ready for testing (after proof of feasibility and development of most of the product) and without additional significant R&D content.

Goal of the incentive program:
To encourage collaborations with MNCs for development and application of innovative technologies in various fields. The incentive program involves an assessment of feasibility that is aimed at assisting Israeli companies to grow and increase their competitiveness in the global market by establishing strategic connections with the corporations, integration in their technological and marketing activities, and creating scale-up for their products in global markets.

Who is the incentive program for?

Israeli technology companies from all industry sectors that wish to develop or significantly upgrade products and technologies with an international partner. Calls for proposals are published from time to time and provide priority to specific technological fields.
What do you get?

Financial support of up to 50% of the Israeli company’s approved R&D expenditure.
Companies operating in National Development Zones are eligible for 10% additional support.
Companies operating in the areas around the Gaza Strip are eligible for 25% additional support.
Assistance and support from the MNC partner in the form of consultation, services, and resources.
This diverse support can include access to data, production lines, complex infrastructures, unique expertise and skills, allocation of technological or business consultants to guide and direct the Israeli company, and more.
The incentive program has no funding cap.
Royalties & Intellectual Property
The Israel Innovation Authority supports start-ups in achieving a significant funding milestone whilst attracting opportunities for multinational corporations. 
Therefore, it ensures investors certainty and incentivizes corporations that invest in Authority's funded companies to benefit from cutting-edge local knowledge. For more information, click here.