About the program
This Israel Science Foundation (ISF) program offers funds for mid-career university faculty members, who have the academic status of Associate Professor or Full Professor, to purchase scientific equipment. A mid-career faculty member will be defined as someone who first joined the academic system in Israel, as a full-time faculty member, over the past 10-22 years.


Funding sources
Planning and Budgeting Committee (Council of Higher Education, Vatat)
Participation of the host institute in at least 25% of the cost of the equipment


The team
The applications for this program are handled by the relevant field department (Exact Sciences & Technology, Life Sciences & Medicine, Humanities, Social Sciences). 


Submission rules
Eligibility: Restricted to researchers from academic institutions who have joined an Israeli academic institution for the first time during the past 10-22 year, according to the guidelines
Areas of research: All areas
Amount of funding: The ISF funding will be up to NIS 910,000, which will be up to 75% of the total cost, contingent on a commitment from the host institution to match at least 25% of the ISF contribution.
Number of grants per cycle: up to 18 grants each cycle

Review process
Review of applications will be conducted by a professional committee in the field the application was submitted.

Evaluation criteria:

The quality of the research activity for which the requested equipment is required
The existing infrastructure and knowledge in the research researcher's lab operating the equipment.
Applicant researcher's achievements and scientific activities in the years before submission.
The necessity of equipment in the research laboratory submitting the proposal and its specificity.
The uniqueness of the requested equipment in the institute.

Decision notification
Decisions will be communicated by ISF, usually by the second half of July, to the submitting applicant with the main comments by the committee.


Grant activation
Grants are activated starting October 1st subject to approval and when signatures are received from researcher agreeing to the terms and conditions.
Equipment can be purchased from October 1st of the year of the submission until September of the following year.