About the program
This program supports basic research proposals in the fields of Exact Sciences and Technology, Life Sciences and Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences. Proposals are awarded on a competitive basis to individual researchers according to the highest standards of scientific excellence, independent of their host institution. This program is the largest and most comprehensive of all of the Israel Science Foundation’s (ISF's) core activities. 


Funding sources
Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC) of the Council of Higher Education (CHE)
Donations and funds dedicated to scientific research

The team
Applications for this program are handled by the relevant field department (Exact Sciences & Technology, Life Sciences & Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences). 


Submission rules
Eligibility: Open to researchers from all types of institutions according to the terms and guidelines for submission
Areas of research: All fields
Amount of funding: No upper limit specified. For the academic year of 2019, the average grant was around  224,757 NIS per year
Acceptance rate: Approximately 33%-35% of proposals receive funding

Review process
The proposals are evaluated through a competitive process, based solely on their scientific merit. The dual review process is based on a combination of peer review and deliberations of professional scientific committees.

An initial evaluation of the proposals is made by the professional committee, composed of researchers in the field. The committee will detect scientifically weak proposals or such which do not meet the ISF's requirements, which will not be sent for external review. The rest of the proposals will be sent for peer review and be evaluated by the professional committees, based on the reviews received and the professional judgment of the committee members.

Criteria for assessment: 

Original and innovative research
Significance and potential impact of the research
Appropriate methodology to support present hypothesis or to propose new ones
Ability to significantly contribute to the research; the committee reserves the right to reject a proposal if this is felt to be lacking
Capability of existing infrastructure supporting the proposed research

Decision notification
Decisions will be communicated by the ISF, usually by the second half of July, to the submitting researcher(s), with relevant remarks from the review committee.


Grant activation
Grants are activated starting October 1st subject to approval and signatures to be received from researcher(s) agreeing to the terms and conditions
Annual reports detailing scientific progress and financial expenditure are required for the duration of the grant
A new grant will be activated only after all obligations relating to any previous grant administered by the ISF have been concluded by the researcher(s)