About the program
The goals of the Breakthrough Research Grants (BRG) or מפ"צ(MAPATS ( program is to provide large-scale support for high risk/high gain, groundbreaking research.

This program will provide resources that are not normally available in the funding system in Israel and are intended for a limited and selected number of senior researchers who have reached a stage in their careers in which a large cash flow is required to achieve their goals.

Funding sources
Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC) of the Council of Higher Education (CHE)


The team
Applications for this program are handled by the relevant field department (Exact Sciences & Technology, Life Sciences & Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences). 

Professor David Andelman of Tel Aviv University is the head of this program, Dr. Ella Fire is the program’s scientific coordinator.

The Breakthrough Scientific Advisory Board:

Prof. Helga Nowotny – Chair, Former President of the European Research Council and the ETH Zurich

Professor Pearl Dykstra, Chair in Empirical Sociology, Erasmus University Rotterdam

Professor Simon Goldhill, University of Cambridge and Foreign Secretary, British Academy

Professor Serge Haroche, Collège de France and Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris

Professor Robert J. Lefkowitz, MD, James B. Duke Professor of Medicine, Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Duke University Medical Center


Submission rules
Eligibility: Open to researchers with at least 10 years of research experience as a Principal Investigator (PI), and according to the terms and guidelines for submission. Open only to researchers from institutions that have received specific approval for their researchers who are eligible to submit to this program. Each institution has been informed its limited number of applications allowed.
Areas of research: All fields.
Amount of funding: up to 800,000 NIS per year for up to 5 years (including possible purchase of required equipment at the cost of up to half the grant).
Acceptance rate: this year up to 10 applications will be funded.

Review process
The proposals are evaluated through a competitive process, based on both the researcher’s qualifications and the suggested research project’s scientific merit.

Criteria for assessment: 

Researcher’s suitability to the program and ability to significantly contribute and conduct the research
Original and innovative research
Risks and benefit of the research (high risk / high gain)
The methodological approach and the chance of its success
The evaluation process includes two main stages:

• First stage – suitability of the applications to the program.

The evaluation will be performed by the professional committee, based on the full application (Noncompetitive applications or those that do not meet the program’s and the ISF’s requirements will be identified. Significant weight will be given to the researcher's suitability). A large percentage of applications will be declined at this stage.

• Second stage – applications will be sent for external peer review. The applications will be evaluated based solely on scientific excellence.

Decision notification
The ISF's decisions, will be communicated to the researchers after each stage of the evaluation prosses.
Proposals rejected at the first stage (a significant number of proposals), will receive only a summary of the committee’s comments.
After the second evaluation stage, the decisions will be sent along with the major remarks of the written external evaluations, usually by the second half of July.

Grant activation
Grants are activated starting October 1st subject to approval and signatures to be received from researcher agreeing to the terms and conditions.
Annual reports detailing scientific progress and financial expenditures are required for the duration of the grant.
A new grant will be activated only after all obligations relating to any previous ISF grant have been concluded by the researcher.