About the program
The program promotes research collaboration among Israeli and Singaporean scientists, with support provided by an agreement between the Israel Science Foundation (ISF) and the National Research Foundation of Singapore (NRF).

Funding sources
Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC) of the Council of Higher Education (CHE)


The team
The applications for this program are handled by the ISF team responsible for the International cooperation.

Submission rules
Eligibility: Open to researchers from all types of institutions according to the terms and guidelines for submission and the eligibility guide; this should be a joint submission together with a Singaporean partner authorized to submit applications to the NRF
Areas of research: Topics for this year are: Quantum Physics (Materials, Optics and Computing)
Amount of funding:
On the Israeli side, up to NIS 370,000 a year for three years for an experimental project, or NIS 220,000 a year for three years for a theoretical project.  In addition, up to 120,000 for dedicated research equipment, to be used over the duration of the grant. 
On the Singaporean side, 140,000 SGD for for three years for an experimental project, or 84,000 SGD for a theoretical project. The maximum award for equipment for the Singaporean researcher is 42,000 SGD.

Review Process
Reviews will be in done in parallel stages and coordinated between the ISF and the NRF.

Evaluations are conducted by professional committees in Israel and Singapore.
Evaluation criteria:

Scientific excellence
Proposal suitability
Capability to undertake the research
Benefits joint collaboration

Decision notification
Decisions will be communicated by the ISF to the submitting researcher(s), with relevant remarks from the review committee.

Grant activation
Grants are activated starting October 1st, subject to researcher approval to the terms and conditions.
Annual reports detailing scientific progress and financial expenditure are required for the duration of the grant.
A new grant will be activated only after all scientific obligations relating to any previous grant administered by the ISF have been concluded by the researcher.