About the program
The goal of the program is to advance innovative and groundbreaking biomedical research in Israel, which will lead to in-depth understanding of human biology and mechanisms of disease, towards the development of novel treatment and diagnostic approaches.

The core of the program will be research in human biology with a clear relevance to health and disease, focusing on disease understanding (at the molecular, physiological, or other levels), based on extensive use of medical information and biological samples.

The program will be broad in terms of research topics, including projects that will provide insights into disease definition, disease risk, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment, as well as the development of technologies that underlie this work. Research programs should be scientifically excellent and directly relevant to biomedicine.


Program objectives
Promoting research in the field of precision medicine in Israel
Encouraging cooperation between researchers in institutions of higher education in Israel, physicians from various fields of knowledge and specialization, and the various health organizations in Israel
Encouraging multidisciplinary research involving scientists and clinicians from various fields such as experimental biomedicine, theoretical biology, computational biology, engineering, physics, chemistry, statistics, epidemiology, genetics and others
Developing innovative analytical and computational technologies promoting the precision medicine research relevant to precision medicine
Providing the research community with opportunities for input, and access to results of program-supported studies; Accessibility of data and research results of projects funded under IPMP to the scientific community

Funding sources
The program is based on pooling of budgetary resources of the Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC), Headquarters for the National Digital Israel Initiative, Ministry of Health and philanthropic organizations: Yad Hanadiv and the Klarman Family Foundation.


The team
The applications for this program are handled by the Department of Life Sciences under the supervision of Dr. Ayelet Zamir, the Scientific Coordinator.

Inquiries related to the program should be directed only to:

ipmp@isf.org.il


Submission rules
Eligibility: Open to researchers from all types of institutions according to the terms and guidelines for submission.

The program is aiming at a direct study of human biology. Studies using animal models as parts of proposals are acceptable, but must be justified as necessary for exploring aspects of human biology.

An essential component of the program is the rapid deposition of the research data into databases that are shared with the scientific community. The researchers will select the databases in which the data is deposited for sharing, making every effort to maintain the anonymity of the participants in the research. Once a national database is established, researchers will be required to deposit in it the data acquired in the framework of the Israel Precision Medicine.


Grant Budget
IPMP includes two funding categories:

1.Comprehensive and information-intensive projects – up to 7 million NIS, spread over a period of up to four years; for projects combining large scale generation and analysis of medical and experimental data

2. Focused research programs, or projects aiming at the development of novel research technologies - up to 2 million NIS, spread over a period of up to four years; for focused projects, based on existing data or on the development of novel research technologies, both experimental and computational.

Proposals belonging to both categories will be subjected to the same evaluation criteria.

During the evaluation, the adequacy of the requested budget to the research plan will be examined.

The grants will be granted for two to four years


Review process
Proposals will undergo a competitive peer-review process, based on scientific excellence, as reflected by the originality, innovation, creativity, and an optimal choice of research approaches, as with all ISF programs. This will be done by professional committees that will be established by the ISF and will include leading research personnel in the relevant fields of research. The committee might, at its discretion, send the proposals to external reviewers. The recommendations of the professional committee shall be submitted for the approval of the academic management and the board of the ISF.

Only applications that are scientifically outstanding and suitable to the program will be funded.

Evaluation standards for research proposals will include:

The extent to which the application corresponds with program objectives and requirements
Originality and innovation
Significance of proposed research and its implications for human biology and medicine
Suitability of methods
Existence of a detailed data management plan aiming at providing the community with broad access to the collected data
Qualifications of the principal investigators and their research teams
Feasibility of proposed research (for example, collaboration agreements between researchers and clinicians and the HMOs, demonstration of access to medical information and samples in sufficient numbers, access to relevant research infrastructures, supportive of preliminary findings, etc.)
Adherence to high ethical standards including demonstration of regulatory and ethical approvals (e.g. approval of the Helsinki committee)