Department of Engineering and Materials Sciences
Engineering and materials sciences deliver scientific and technical supports to national
security, the sustainable development of the society and economy, and the improvement of people’s
living standard. Aiming at cutting-edge areas and meeting the national strategic demands of social
and economic development, and starting from the organic combination of national goal orientation
and frontier exploration, the Department promotes the combination of basic research and its
engineering application, strengthens original innovation, commits to discoveries, inventions and
innovations, enhances the sustainable development of interdisciplinary integration, in order to
achieve a higher level of sustainable development and broad international impact in the field of
engineering and materials.
In 2020, under the work guideline of “feature first, appropriate size, dynamic optimization,
serving the management”, the Department adjusted its discipline layout and optimized the
application codes, wherein the third-level application codes were cancelled. The application codes
were then optimized, in the hope that through the integration of funding fields, the features and
developing patterns of engineering and materials sciences can be fully appreciated, so as to
promote the cross-integration of disciplines, to realize the organic integration of the discipline
frontiers and the major national needs, to elevate the scientific funding management level and the
funding productivity, to promote the high-quality development of basic research in engineering
science and materials science.
In 2020, the Department received 20,740 General Program proposals, increased by 15.91%,
and among them 3,309 were supported with a total direct cost of 1,923,980,000 yuan. The average
direct cost is 581,400 yuan per project and the success rate is 15.95% (18.23% in 2019).
In 2020, the Department received 18,771 Young Scientists Fund proposals, increased by
14.04%, and among them 3,127 were supported with a total direct cost of 745,600,000 yuan. The
average direct cost is 238,400 yuan per project and the success rate is 16.66% (18.96% in 2019).
In 2020, the Department received 2,703 proposals for the Fund for Less Developed Regions,
increased by 2.43%, and among them 393 were supported with a total direct cost of 137,500,000
yuan. The average direct cost is 349,900 yuan per project and the success rate is 14.54% (13.04%
in 2019).
In 2021, the Department will continue to optimize the discipline layout on the basis of
summarization and optimization of the pilot work of application code adjusting. The applications
will be regulated according to the adjusted architecture of “application code”, “research direction”
and “key words”, therefore the applicants should carefully check the corresponding application
code and select the appropriate secondary application code. The Department encourages
interdisciplinary and cutting-edge researches, especially the original innovation researches which
focus on extracting critic scientific issues and condense basic research content from the practice of
engineering applications, with such great significance and relevance of our country’s conditions
that industrial development could be promoted and international competitiveness could be raised.
Priority is given to researches with important scientific research value and potential application
prospects, and potentials of being new knowledge growth points, and to researches that can lead the
development of disciplines, and have the potential to obtain independent intellectual properties
suitable for national conditions. The Department will further strengthen the construction of
academic discipline and create a good academic ecological environment.
Attention:
(1) In accordance with the NSFC requirements for the application code adjustment, the
application code published by the Department contains only the first- and second-level application
Funding Scope and Instructions
61
code, wherein the third-level application code was cancelled (i.e., the original six-digit application
code). Applicants should carefully read the relevant instructions and be aware of the scope of
funding, accurately select an appropriate secondary application code and the corresponding
research direction and keywords.
(2) The applicants have the obligation to ensure the accuracy and completeness of all
information in the application. Attention should be paid to correctly fill in the personal information
of the applicants and other main participants, history of received project funding and academic
paper publications. In particular, when filling in the representative works, the applicants must
comply with the instruction and writing outline of the application form, and refer to the scientific
integrity requirements in the application rules of this guide. The department will strictly review the
representative works provided in the proposals by the applicants, and any items with falsely marked
information will be dealt according to the severity of the problem.
(3) Interdisciplinary researches will be encouraged so as to promote the progress of the cross
disciplines involved. Applicants should put forward new conceptions and ideas as creative as
possible with specific scientific issues.
Funding in Department of Engineering and Materials Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Developed
Regions
Projects Direct
Cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
Cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
Cost
Success
rate (%)
Metallic materials 240 13,935 16.43 246 5,864 16.27 40 1,388 14.08
Inorganic
nonmetallic
materials
316 18,407 16.67 333 7,936 17.26 38 1,337 14.67
Organic polymer
materials 222 12,957 16.91 241 5,720 17.17 21 746 15.33
Mining and
metallurgy
engineering
366 21,296 15.60 343 8,176 16.66 49 1,720 14.85
Mechanic design
and manufacture 561 32,550 16.23 523 12,512 16.99 66 2,297 14.32
Engineering
thermophysics and
energy utilization
219 12,739 16.29 250 5,968 16.73 17 597 17.17
Electrical science
and engineering 223 13,000 15.65 200 4,712 16.22 21 743 14.79
Architecture and
civil engineering 509 29,537 15.47 414 9,888 16.56 68 2,371 13.71
Hydraulic
engineering 151 8,780 15.73 149 3,552 17.17 29 1,025 14.65
Environmental
engineering 196 11,390 16.18 187 4,472 15.73 23 790 15.03
Ocean engineering 110 6,415 13.65 94 2,256 15.14 2 71 13.33
Traffic and
transportation
engineering
102 5,916 15.96 81 1,944 16.60 10 350 15.15
New concept and
general science of
materials
94 5,476 15.88 66 1,560 16.71 9 315 14.29
Total or average 3,309 192,398 15.95 3 127 74,560 16.66 393 13,750 14.54
Direct cost per
project 58.14 — 34.99
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
62
(4) The fundamentality and innovation should be fully discussed in proposals. Applicants
should pay attention to proposing key scientific issues, concentrating research contents and
highlighting research focus. For different types of projects, please refer to the relevant project
administrative policies, and put forward proposals according to the requirements.
(5) Applicants are required to provide the research achievements of the previous completed
project(s), and list the scientific papers published in domestic or foreign academic journals. The
provided information must be objective and accurate; otherwise it will be treated as a research
integrity issue.
(6) Please refer to the funding amount of different projects, and put forward proposals with a
reasonable budget plan according to actual demands of various expenses.
Metallic Materials (E01)
The Discipline supports fundamental researches on metallic materials. Research proposals
should present the merits of the proposed fundamental research clearly, including clear objectives
and scientific significance of the project, and the suitability of the methods to be employed.
Proposals should target either to advance the materials science in cutting-edge areas or to promote
development in the relevant areas that meet the national demands.
The funding scope of the Discipline covers compositions, microstructures, phases, surfaces and
interfaces, scales effect, impurities and defects in metals, alloys, metal matrix composites, inter
metallic compounds, metal-like materials and metamaterials, and their influence on mechanical,
physical and chemical properties and performance; theories, calculation methods, modern analysis
and testing techniques, big data and artificial intelligence analysis methods of material research;
basic issues in the preparation and processing of metallic materials, including melt composition
control, solidification and crystal growth, casting, heat treatment, forging, welding, forming,
additive manufacturing and powder metallurgy; service behaviors such as corrosion and protection,
friction and wear, fatigue and fracture, creep; the interaction between materials and service
environment, functional degradation and failure, recycling mechanism and related basis; the
behavior of metals under extreme conditions such as irradiation, high temperature, high pressure,
high strain rate, strong electric field and magnetic field; the microstructure, structure and properties
of metal surface; surface modification and coating; strengthening and toughening, deformation and
fracture of metals; mechanical and functional properties and structural design of metal matrix
composites; mechanical and functional characteristics, interaction mechanism of material and
structure, matching optimization design, preparation and processing of structural-functional
integrated materials; metallic amorphous, quasicrystal and metastable materials; low dimensional
metallic materials; optical, electrical, magnetic, acoustic and thermal functional metallic materials;
energy, environmental and catalytic materials; metallic materials used in information generation,
transmission and storage, conversion and processing; biological, intelligent and bionic materials.
It is encouraged to concentrate on common key scientific issues beyond materials systems.
Researchers should pay attention not only to the frontiers and the hot areas, but also new
understandings of the basic scientific problems in traditional materials. Applications with a
cross-disciplinary background should focus on issues within the funding spectrum of the
Discipline
Inorganic non-metallic materials (E02)
The Discipline supports fundamental researches with various inorganic non-metallic
materials as the main research subject. Along with the development of the basic theory of materials
and the innovation in preparation technologies, new inorganic non-metallic materials continue to
emerge, including two-dimensional materials, smart materials, biomaterials, and new energy
Funding Scope and Instructions
63
materials, etc. The researches on inorganic non-metallic materials are becoming more and more
active. At present, in the researches of inorganic non-metallic materials, functional materials are
developing in the direction of high performance, high reliability, high sensitivity, smartness, and
functional integration; and structural materials are improving in respect of strength and toughness,
functionalization, extreme environment endurance, eco-friendly preparation, and high reliability.
While developing new materials, conventional inorganic non-metallic materials are constantly
being remolded, upgraded, and developed as well. More and more attentions have been given to the
applications of inorganic non-metallic materials in various engineering sciences and technologies
including information technology, life science, energy and environmental science, aerospace
technology, and so on.
According to the proposals submitted in the past 3 years, the researches on inorganic
non-metallic materials involve various areas with a broad interdisciplinary range. Among the
proposals, the researches on functional materials accounted for 67.8%, which was the most active
field, forming many subject hotspots including energy conversion and storage materials,
semiconductor and information functional materials, low-dimensional carbon and two-dimensional
materials, multiferroic and lead-free piezoelectric materials, biomedical materials, and so on.
Among them, the proposals on energy conversion and storage materials (about 26.3% of the total in
the year 2020) ranked above all the others. The proposals in the field of structural materials were
relatively concentrated among some institutions, and the corresponding proposals accounted for
32.2% of the total. There were also a large number of proposals for composite materials based on
inorganic non-metallic materials, among which the number of the proposals on functional
composite materials has increased compared with the past. However, in terms of the quality, quite a
number of them were of follow-up, low-level repetition, lack of innovation ideas and features.
This Discipline supports the research projects with innovative ideas, as well as substantive
interdisciplinary researches of inorganic non-metallic materials cross-cutting with other related
disciplines. The Discipline encourages and supports the following areas: exploration of new
inorganic non-metallic material systems based on domestic resource status; researches on
preparation sciences and new technologies, new theories, new effects, new characterization
technologies and methods for inorganic non-metallic materials; applied basic researches on novel
inorganic functional materials and smartness materials, advanced structural materials, photoelectric
information functional materials, low-dimensional carbon and two-dimensional materials,
biomedical materials, new energy materials, ecological and sustainable environment materials, etc.;
researches on the surface, interface, and composite design of materials; basic researches on
“structure-function” integrated composite materials; and applied basic researches on the
improvement and remolding of conventional inorganic non-metallic materials using new theories,
new techniques, and new processes.
Organic Polymer Materials (E03)
The Discipline mainly supports the following areas in the field of organic and polymeric
materials science: synthesis and preparation of organic and polymeric materials; physics of
polymeric materials; processing of polymeric materials; general polymer materials (plastics,
rubbers, fibers, coatings, adhesives, etc.); polymer-based composite/hybrid materials; polymeric
materials related to ecological environment; intelligent and biomimetic polymer materials;
biomedical organic and polymeric materials; organic and polymeric materials with photo, electro or
magnetic functions; other organic and polymeric functional materials (such as separation and
adsorption materials, flexible electronic materials and devices, low-dimensional functional
materials, battery related organic and polymeric materials, information polymer materials, porous
materials, COFs and MOFs, catalytic materials, self-assembly functional materials, photonic
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
64
crystals, organic-inorganic functional composite materials); special polymer materials.
The Discipline encourages interdisciplinary basic and applied basic researches involved
with mathematics, chemistry, physics, life science, medical science, information science, energy,
environment, mechanical and manufacturing science, transport and aerospace science, and
oceanography, etc., which lead to creativity and innovation. To be specific, the researches in the
following areas are encouraged: scientific issues in the preparation of polymeric materials,
including high efficient and controllable synthetic methods of polymeric materials, synthetic
chemistry of polymer materials with high performance, including new monomers, new routes and
new technologies, the preparation of functional polymer materials, new method and theory in
polymer processing, the relationship between the aggregation structures and the properties of
polymeric materials and their composite materials; the method and theory in the implementation of
the high performance and functional properties of general polymer materials; low-cost and green
method in the preparation of functional organic and polymeric materials, the structure-property
relationship and the implementation of their stability; performance-directed biomedical polymer
materials and the evaluation method of their application; design and preparation of
function-directed organic and polymeric materials with photo, electro, magnetic or information
functions, and study on the implementation of high performance and the stability of their devices;
new concept in the design theory and preparation method of smart and biomimetic polymer
materials; the controllable preparation and assembly methods of supramolecules and polymer
materials with multilevel structures and their functionalization, eco-environmental polymer
materials, including the structures, properties and efficient utilization of natural polymers, as well
as the design theory and preparation method of environment-friendly polymer materials, the
recycling and utilization of polymeric materials; polymeric materials for environmental control and
improvement in water, soil and air pollution, and the stability and aging of polymeric materials.
The Discipline also encourages enhancing the design of polymer materials with the
guidance of theories; basic research aiming at the difficult problems existing in the preparation,
modification and processing of the main assortments of domestic polymer materials; basic research
aiming at new organic and polymeric materials and new technologies in polymer processing for the
national strategical objective; research on the basic issues of the “Key & Core Technology” related
organic and polymeric materials.
Mining and Metallurgical Engineering (E04)
The Discipline supports the fundamental researches on mining and metallurgical
engineering, involving mainly natural resources exploitation (petroleum, natural gas, and mineral
ores), safety science and engineering, mineral engineering and separation science of substances,
ferrous and nonferrous metallurgy, materials preparation and processing, resource recycling and
utilization, ecological environment, etc.
In recent years, benefited by continuous financial supports, and driven by major national
needs, mining and metallurgy engineering science in China has obtained great progresses through
continuous innovations. The research capability has improved, and some researches have reached
international frontiers. Many significant research results have been achieved. The main
developmental trends of the Discipline include: (1) Discipline deepening and extension. The theory
of the Discipline is much deepened and improved by continuously assimilating novel methods and
techniques with the changes and expands of demands for resources, environment, and mineral and
metallic materials. (2) Interdisciplinary and integration. Basic disciplines such as mathematics,
physics, chemistry, mechanics and electromagnetism are involved in this discipline more deeply,
and the integration within this discipline is closer. New research areas have emerged one after
another due to further development of interdisciplinary. (3) Combination of fundamental research
Funding Scope and Instructions
65
and application. The applications, such as in the fields of mining and metallurgical equipment,
system monitoring and control, metallurgical reaction engineering and systems engineering,
ecological technology of mining and metallurgy, engineering and safety, pay more attention to the
depth of basic research and the update of basic knowledge. The obvious characteristics include
“process integration, technology integration and disciplinary integration”. Therefore, it is getting
faster and faster in integration, interaction and transformation of science and technology. At present,
the Discipline is in the focal point of resource, energy, environment and safety. Due to gap between
demand and development, upgrading of traditional industries and improvement of ecological
environment, the developmental concepts including “innovation, coordination, green, open, and
sharing” should be put into practice in upgrading traditional industries and improving ecosystem to
fulfill new meaning of industrial upgrading promoted by the fundamental research.
Hot research topics of the Discipline include complex oil and natural gas exploitation,
intelligent green mines, environmental management and ecological restoration of mining and
metallurgy, basic science of engineering safety, accurate control of mineral separation process,
preparation of high value-added mineral materials, intellectualization, greenization, refinement of
material metallurgical process engineering, high-clean and high-homogeneous metal materials
metallurgy, precision hot forging for light alloy, resource circulation and utilization, integration of
mining, metallurgy and materials, etc.
Focusing on engineering science, the Discipline will continuously enhance interdisciplinary
research, explore new methods, pay close attention to new theory, concepts and methods, and their
creative applications. The Discipline will attach importance to ensuring the development of the
national economy and improving the quality of people’s lives. The aim is to enhance the levels of
basic research on promoting the core competitiveness in China’s petroleum, mining industry,
metallurgy, and materials preparation and processing, and engineering safety by providing
problem-oriented solutions to meet the major national needs. In the aspect of natural resources
exploitation, research will focus on the intellectualization, greenization, refinement of engineering
and scientific issues, encourage reengineering technology to improve mining efficiency and safety,
emphasize source controlling, cyclic utilization and environmental protection, and finally achieve
both economic and environmental benefits. In the aspect of techniques, process, and equipment,
emphases will be placed on structure optimization and adjustment, process intensification, the
scientific law of engineering and basic research of big data and artificial intelligence application. In
terms of selecting research topics, priority should be given to the funding of the basic researches
that have great theoretical significance, have potential applications and foresights, are likely to
become the growth point of new knowledge, and are involved in many research fields. Priority
should be especially given to the funding of youth scientific research projects with original ideas,
and with cooperation at home and abroad. Researchers are encouraged to conduct long-term
research and boldly put forward their own hypotheses to form their own research features. Research
teams and innovation groups are encouraged, and continuous support are provided to integrate
talents in certain fields to solve technical bottlenecks and promote industrial upgrading in the main
industrial chain, which can truly reflect the role of basic engineering science research.
The following research fields are encouraged: (1) new theory and method to enhance
recovery of oil and natural gas; (2) theory of safe and efficient development in drilling and
production for complex oil and gas resources in deeper formation and deeper sea; (3) theory of safe
and efficient operation of oil and gas pipeline network; (4) theory of high-efficient mining of
geothermal resources in deeper formation, and safe, green and intelligent mining of deep mineral
resources; (5) theory of rock mechanics and strata control under multiple fields; (6) theory of
prevention and emergency of major disasters and accidents in the production process; (7) theory of
mine ecological environment and occupational hazards; (8) theory of green separation for mining
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
66
and metallurgy; (9) clean and efficient extraction of mineral resources; (10) thermodynamic basis
and metallurgical theory for the production of high quality metal materials; (11) theory of
formation, transportation and control of pollutants produced in the metallurgical process; (12)
theory of efficient fabrication, processing and fine forming of metal materials and special materials;
(13) theory of information acquisition and data processing of mining and metallurgy,
intellectualization of mining and metallurgy process and materials preparation; (14) theory of green
metallurgy, new theory, new method and new technology for metallurgical process efficiency; (15)
theory of efficient cycle and utilization of secondary resources.
Mechanical Design and Manufacturing (E05)
The Discipline supports fundamental research in the fields of mechanical and manufacturing
science.
Mechanical science is a fundamental discipline that involves the study of functional
synthesis, quantitative representation, performance control for various mechanical products, and the
development of novel design theories and methodologies by applying related knowledge and
technologies regarding mechanical systems. It mainly includes robotics and mechanism,
transmission and drive, mechanical system dynamics, strength theory for mechanical structures,
mechanical tribology and surface technology, mechanical design, and mechanical bionics.
Manufacturing science primarily involves studying theories, methods, technologies, processes,
equipment, and systems concerned with production manufacturing of high-efficiency, low-cost,
intelligent, and high-performance. It mainly includes biomanufacturing, forming, machining,
manufacturing systems and intelligence, mechanical measurement and test theory, and
micro/nanomechanical systems.
The particular focuses of the support in this Discipline are: fundamental researches
concerning national strategic priorities, the cutting-edge sciences of mechanics, and significant
application potential for industrial applications; researches aimed at the eco-friendly,
resource-saving, and energy-efficient integration of sustainable design and manufacturing;
researches concerning innovative design, new manufacturing principles and process optimization,
and measurement theories and equipment prototype for ultrahigh-precision, extreme loading, and in
particular, large or heavy equipment and instruments; methodologies for designing, manufacturing
and testing under extreme working conditions, for instance, parameters ranging from conventional
to extraordinary or extreme conditions, and scale ranging from macroscale to mesoscale,
microscale, nanoscale, and multiscale. In 2021, priority funding will be provided under equal
conditions by the General Program to groups in two areas, mechanical design under extreme
working conditions (E0506), and integrated theoretical method and technology of measurement and
machining (E0509, E0511). For the two types of proposals mentioned above, applicants should
indicate the project group in the Explanatory Notes of application cover.
Based on the basic tasks of mechanical design and manufacturing, the Discipline encourages
continual in-depth research in specific fields and high-risk exploratory research for original
breakthroughs and disruptive innovation. The research that has yielded innovative achievements
and is expected to achieve significant breakthroughs will be preferentially supported; moreover,
substantial and profound interdisciplinary research with natural science and other engineering
science is also welcome. However, it should be noted that applications should not deviate from the
funding scope of the Discipline.
The Discipline insists on project performance evaluation. New applications from
high-quality executed project leaders will be given priority funding under equal conditions; new
applications submitted by the person in charge of a poorly executed project will be strictly
controlled.
Engineering Thermophysics and Energy Utilization (E06)
The Discipline of engineering thermophysics and energy utilization supports the
fundamental researches on basic principles and the application technology theory in the processes
of energy conversion, transfer and utilization. The traditional research mainly focuses on the basic
laws of conventional energy conversion and utilization in the form of heat and work. At present, it
has been extended to the researches on the conversion, storage and utilization of a variety of energy
including renewable energy and new energy by using the basic principles of engineering
thermophysics. The supports involve in engineering thermodynamics, refrigeration and cryogenics
and dynamic characteristics of thermodynamic systems, aerothermodynamics, heat and mass
transfer, multi-phase flow, combustion, thermo-physical properties and measurement, and
renewable energy utilization, as well as other fundamental and innovative researches related to
engineering thermo-physics and energy utilization.
The main development trends of the Discipline are as follows: (1) research on the basic
issues has been deepen from macro-level to meso-level and micro/nano-level, from isolated studies
to coupled studies, from common parameters to parameters under ultra- or extreme conditions,
from routine thermo-physical problems to random, unsteady, multi-dimension, multi-phase and
complicated thermo-physical problems and intercrossing research in the Discipline; moreover,
research becomes more quantitative and precise; (2) research themes have been crossed over
traditional disciplinary borders and integrated with related disciplines, for example, physics,
chemistry, life science, information science, materials science, environment and safety. Researches
in the following areas are active: the mechanism of new type thermodynamic cycles and
non-equilibrium thermal dynamics, refrigeration and low temperature engineering, dynamics,
optimization and control of complicated systems, turbulence properties of internal flows and
properties and control of unsteady flows, porous media and micro-scale heat and mass transfer,
radiation and heat exchange by phase transformation, clean, supersonic and micro-scale
combustion, thermo-physical problems in the prevention of disasters, mechanism of interaction
between phases and thermo-physical model in multi-phase flow, new principles and methods in
thermo-physical measurement, and new thermo-physical principles in energy conservation,
renewable energy transformation and utilization, energy and environment.
The Discipline will give priority to fundamental researches with theoretical significance,
potential application and prior prospect, which might be the new fields for knowledge production,
continuously promote interdisciplinary studies and the exploration of novel methods, and
encourage original ideas and creations. The Discipline will continue supporting the researches with
interdisciplinary nature, or international cooperation background or excellent achievements in the
completed projects. It is expected to produce original research results with independent intellectual
property rights in China, and to promote the continuous development of fundamental researches in
the field of engineering thermo-physics and energy utilization.
Electrical Science and Engineering (E07)
The Discipline includes two main fields: electric (magnetic) energy science and the
interaction between electromagnetic field and matter. The key areas of funding include the basic
research and applied basic research with objects or means of electric (magnetic) phenomenon and
principle, the related scientific problems in electric (magnetic) energy generation, transformation,
conversion, transmission and utilization, as well as the mechanism and laws of the interaction
between electromagnetic field and matter. This Discipline is based on electromagnetic field, circuit
(electric network), electrical materials, and other fields of electrical science. It focuses on electric
machine and its system, power and integrated energy system, high voltage and insulation, electrical
apparatus, pulse power, discharge plasma, power electronics, electric energy storage and
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
68
application, superconducting electrotechnics, bio-electromagnetics, and other electrical engineering
fields. Researches on new phenomena, new theories, new models, new methods, new devices and
new equipment are encouraged.
The areas of electromagnetic field and circuit mainly include: electromagnetic field, circuit
(electric network), static electricity, electromagnetic measurement and sensing, new energy
conversion and power transmission technology, electromagnetic environment, and electromagnetic
compatibility. The areas of superconducting and electrical materials mainly include:
superconducting conductor and magnet, superconducting power technology, engineering dielectrics,
conductor/semiconductor/insulation/magnetic/energy storage/sensing materials and other new
electrical materials. The areas of electric machine and its system mainly include: analysis and
design of electric machine, conversion and control of electric machine system, integration of
electric machine system, and electric drive. The areas of power and integrated energy system
mainly include: power system analysis, power system control, power system protection, electricity
market, electricity information, integrated energy system and energy internet. The areas of high
voltage and discharge mainly include: high voltage and large current, electrical equipment
insulation, overvoltage and its protection, arc and electric contact, electrical apparatus, pulse power
technology, discharge plasma technology. The areas of power electronics include: power electronic
device and its application, and power electronic system and its control. The areas of electric energy
storage and application mainly include: principles of electric energy storage and conversion, as
well as device, equipment and system of electric energy storage. The areas of bio-electromagnetic
technology mainly include: bio-electromagnetic phenomenon and mechanism, biological effect of
electromagnetic field, electromagnetic diagnosis and treatment of disease.
In recent years, electrical science and engineering presents a new trend of development: (1)
The scope of researches is constantly enriched. For example, the integrated energy system,
independent power system, the electrical materials, devices and equipment under extraordinary
environment and extreme condition and so on. (2) The application fields are expanding
continuously. For instance, the electric machines used in robots and servo systems, electrified
traffic, new energy transport equipment, more electric ships and aircrafts, the power supply, storage,
conversion, power transmission and drive (propulsion) in aeronautics and astronautics,
electromagnetic launch, electromagnetic metallurgy, electromagnetic environmental protection
technology, and etc. (3) The interdisciplinary becomes more noticeable. For instance, smart grid,
energy and electricity market, electrical safety, intellisense, electric energy storage, pulse power,
plasma and bio-electromagnetic technology have been intercrossed deeply with the fields like
physics, chemistry, materials, information, management and biomedicine.
For electrical science and engineering discipline, free exploration and interdisciplinary,
tracking and leading the frontiers of the Discipline, and solving the scientific problems existing in
the technical bottlenecks are encouraged, the researches about interdisciplinary basic theory and
key technology, in aspects of interaction between electromagnetic energy and materials, electrical
equipment, power electronic devices, bio-electromagnetic technology and medical electromagnetic
equipment, are particularly encouraged.
In 2020, the application codes of electrical science and engineering discipline were
optimized. The applicants should fully understand the funding scope of this discipline, and
correctly choose or fill in the application codes, as well as the corresponding research areas and
keywords.
Architecture and Civil Engineering (E08)
The Discipline covers the fundamentals of both architectural and civil engineering. The
development trend of architectural area relates to both human and environment simultaneously.
Funding Scope and Instructions
69
Based on the development of urban and rural areas and the concepts of sustainability and green
engineering, the fundamental theory, design, and construction of architecture can be advanced. The
civil engineering should focus on the needs of quality construction, operation, and maintenance of
major national projects and infrastructures; study the basic theory; develop the key technology; and
solve the cross-discipline issues. The architecture and civil engineering features advanced testing,
AI applications, and the combination of innovative material, structural system, and construction.
The related disciplines to the area of architecture include three secondary application codes:
architecture, urban and rural planning, and building physics. The related disciplines to the area of
civil engineering include seven secondary application codes: engineering structures, engineering
materials, engineering construction and service, geotechnical and foundation engineering,
underground and tunneling engineering, transportation and railway engineering, and civil
engineering disaster prevention. In 2020, the architecture and civil engineering made partial
revision and adjustment to the application codes. Please carefully select the application codes and
the corresponding research areas and keywords to avoid incorrect submission. If the key scientific
issues and main research contents are not within the scope of funding for the Discipline, another
discipline area may be recommended.
The area of architecture should emphasize on the new scientific issues, including the
scientific methods for architectural design and urban and rural planning, and the innovation in
building physics, building environment control, and energy conservation theory, with the
encouragement given to the innovative research on the relevant scientific issues in the priority field
of “design principles and technologies in architecture and urban-human habitat environment”. In
the area of civil engineering, more attention should be paid to the innovative research on the
combined design of high-performance material with high-performance structure, maintenance and
functionality improvement of existing structures, and stability and control of geotechnical and
foundation engineering in complex environments. The following four key topics are encouraged:
basic theory on the integration of material and structure, failure mechanism and performance
control of structures under severe loading or environment, advanced experimental and numerical
simulation methods, and AI applications in civil engineering.
Hydraulic Engineering (E09)
This Discipline includes two research fields: hydro-science and hydraulic engineering, and
geo-mechanics and geo-engineering as well as hydro-power engineering. The funding scope covers
engineering hydrology and water resources utilization, agricultural water conservancy and rural
water conservancy, hydraulics and river dynamics, hydro-machinery and systems, geo-mechanics
and geo-engineering, and hydraulic structures. The research content in the above funding scope
includes not only the mechanics and physics process at different scales in the Discipline, but also
their extension towards and combination with chemical and biological processes.
Engineering hydrology and water resources utilization include: monitoring and modeling of
hydrological processes and interactions with associated processes, basin water systems, flood and
drought disasters, water resources, and integrated basin management. Hydraulics and fluvial
dynamics include: fluid mechanics and applications, mixed transport of contaminants, organic
matters, and aquatic organisms, erosion, transport, and deposition of sediment, processes and laws
of river systems, regulation and protection, and integrated management of water, sediment, and
ecosystems in river basins. Hydraulic geotechnical engineering includes: rock and soil mechanics,
common basic characteristics of geotechnical engineering, geotechnical engineering oriented
toward hydraulic engineering and ocean engineering.
Major development trends of the discipline include the following six aspects. On
engineering hydrology and water resources utilization: hydrological processes under a changing
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
70
environment and mechanisms of generation and evolution of basin water resources; water disaster
prevention, rational allocation of water resources, and sustainable development and utilization of
water resources. On agricultural and rural water conservancy: agricultural and rural water resources,
water and soil environment and agroecosystem, zoning of agricultural water conservancy, planning
of irrigation and drainage systems, and water supply and drainage systems in towns and villages,
degradation of irrigated land and losses of water and soil; smart irrigation districts and
modernization of rural water conservancy. On hydraulics and fluvial dynamics: hydrodynamics and
engineering applications, transport of sediment and environmental substances in open waters and
management, interactions between aquatic biology and environmental conditions, integrated
management of rivers, lakes and watersheds. On hydraulic machinery and systems: flow inside
hydraulic machinery, cavitation and erosion, wear and abrasion, multiphase flow, vibration and
noise, flow control, energy dissipation, thermoelastic flow, fluid-solid-magneto-thermo-acoustic
multi-fields coupling, anti-wear material, composite material, failure diagnosis, intelligent control,
and system of power station and pump station. On hydraulic geotechnical engineering: constitutive
relationship of geomaterial, numerical simulation, laboratory and in situ testing, investigation, and
observation, geotechnical structure deformation and stability; geotechnical problems in dam
foundation, foundation, slope, embankment, tunnel, underground space and underground structure.
On hydraulic structure: Hydropower complex, water diversion project, embankment project, design,
construction and operation of hydropower stations, navigation and fish passing structures, as well
as river channel protection and treatment measures.
Environmental Engineering (E10)
The Discipline is an emerging interdiscipline developed on the basis of natural science,
engineering science, humanities and social science, aiming at better understanding and solving
environmental problems. Its main research targets cover the fundamental theories, technologies and
management methods for environmental pollution control, remediation of contaminated
environment, restoration of damaged ecosystem and recycling of wastes. With distinct
problem-orientation and cross-discipline, the Discipline is of key importance for sustainable
development of human society.
The research areas of the Discipline have been expanded to nine 2nd-level application codes,
including drinking water supply and treatment, urban wastewater treatment and resource recovery,
industrial wastewater treatment and reuse, urban and rural water system and ecological recycling,
air pollution control, solid waste recycling and safe disposal, environmental pollution control and
remediation, regional and urban eco-environment system engineering, and ecological and
environmental risk control. To avoid errors in application, the applicants should carefully
understand the scope of discipline funding, and correctly select or fill in the application code and
the corresponding research direction as well as keywords. For key scientific issues and main
research content outside the funding scope of this discipline, please apply for other relevant
disciplines. It encourages the use of new theories, technologies and methodologies from other
disciplines to address environmental engineering-related problems.
The Discipline emphasizes the identification, analysis and resolution of key scientific
problems encountered in the environmental pollution control process; encourages the development
of innovative fundamental theories and technologies for high-efficiency, low-cost pollution control
processes, especially for the research fields of “urban wastewater reclamation and resource
recovery”, “environmental quality improvement and ecological remediation” and “ecological and
environmental risk control and health and safety”.
Ocean Engineering (E11)
The Discipline includes four research fields, which are coastal and ocean engineering, ship
engineering, marine technology, navigation and maritime technology. The funding scope covers (1)
fundamental theories of coastal and ocean engineering, port and waterway engineering, debouche
sand coasts (estuarine coast) and delta engineering, subsea engineering, offshore and deep-sea
engineering, polar engineering, offshore equipment and system, exploitation and utilization of
ocean resources; (2) surface ships, underwater vehicles, unmanned vehicles, ship equipment and
systems, new energy for ships and energy-saving-and-emission-reducing technology; (3)
environment perception and target detection technology, positioning and navigation technology,
information assurance for offshore operations, special marine materials and surface technology; (4)
fundamental theories of navigation and maritime technology, risk control and safety of navigation,
intelligent shipping and polar transportation.
The statistics of the approved grants and the applications in 2020 show increasingly wider
coverage of disciplines and stronger interdisciplines. The fields of coastal and ocean engineering,
and ship engineering have received more grants as well as applications. The fields of marine
technology, navigation and maritime engineering have received less applications and grants. In
2021, the following two research fields are emphatically encouraged: (1) intelligent ships and
navigations; (2) exploitation and utilization of deep sea resources. The applications falling in the
above two categories are to be labeled in the first line of the proposal “the present application falls
in the encouraged research fields listed in the General Program Guidelines”.
The main development trends in the Discipline are: The trend in the field of coastal and
ocean engineering refers to port and waterway engineering and underwater engineering, protection
and utilization of coastal zone resources, disaster prevention and mitigation in extreme cases, safety
and smart operations in port, waterway and coastal engineering, marine rock and soil engineering
and exploration of subsea minerals; polar engineering equipment and technology, research and
development of island engineering equipment, deep-sea fishery equipment and technology,
exploitation and utilization of new ocean energy, development and design technology of deep sea
engineering equipment, and key technologies of deep-sea space station. The trend in the field of
ship engineering refers to the design and manufacture of green and intelligent ships, extreme
environments and ship safety, intelligentization and informatization of ship equipment, unmanned
marine vehicles, new marine power systems, special auxiliary devices and systems. The trend in the
field of marine technology includes marine environmental characteristics, marine special sensors,
acoustic and non-acoustic environment perception and target recognition, underwater
communication, positioning and navigation, offshore operations and information assurance, marine
special materials. The trend in the field of navigation and maritime technology refers to navigation
and maritime management, maritime warning and rescue salvage, maritime safety and
environmental protection, and ship intelligent navigation, autonomous surface transportation
systems.
Transportation and Vehicle Engineering (E12)
The discipline deals with the operational characteristics, principles, and the interconnections
between different modes of transportation (highway, rail, aeronautical and aerospace, waterway,
etc.) as well as various types of vehicles, and supports fundamental research in the field of traffic
engineering and vehicle engineering. Specifically, this discipline studies transportation planning
and design, control, and operation, and focuses on the fundamental theories of design, performance
optimization, and safe operation of vehicles. With the help of theoretical research and
breakthroughs in core technologies, this discipline aims to achieve safety, intelligence, efficiency,
energy saving, and environmental protection in all modes of transportation and for the integrated
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
72
transportation system.
Transportation engineering deals with the integrated transportation system composed of
transportation participants, vehicles, facilities, environment, and other elements within different
transportation modes, as well as the principles and interactions between these elements of the
system. Its study areas include the operational characteristics and principles of vehicles and
pedestrians as individuals or groups in different transportation facilities and transportation
environments to improve the transportation system analysis theory, the planning and design
methods and operation safety of the integrated transportation system, facilities and spaces, hubs and
stations to achieve intelligent transportation planning and design; the core technologies of operation
control of different transportation modes with the help of modern computational and statistical
analysis methods, and network technology to achieve safe and reliable control; the preventative
mechanisms of traffic accidents, safety evaluation, pollution causes, and other theories. There are
four second-level codes in this field, including traffic system analysis theory, traffic planning and
design, traffic information and control, and traffic safety and environment.
Vehicle engineering deals with the fundamental design theory, performance optimization,
safe operation, and intelligent technologies of road vehicles, non-road vehicles, rail transportation
systems, shipping systems, aeronautical aerospace vehicles. By improving the fundament theories
of innovative design and manufacture of the vehicle systems, this discipline is dedicated to: explore
the dynamic control theory of complex vehicle systems; make breakthroughs in core intelligent
vehicle technologies related to perception, decision making, planning, and collaboration; master the
coupling mechanisms of the human-machine-environment and inclusiveness design methods of
vehicles; develop safety and reliability technologies of comprehensive applications, collaborative
management, operation and maintenance and other supportive technologies for the vehicle systems.
There are four second-level codes in this field, including fundamentals of vehicle design, the
dynamics of the vehicle system, intelligentization of the vehicle system, and operation engineering
of the vehicle system.
This discipline is newly established to accommodate the needs from the advancements of
transportation systems and vehicle technologies and the interdisciplinary developments. The
discipline will focus on supporting theoretically significant, forward-looking, and exploratory
fundamental research, and encourage interdisciplinary research of transportation and vehicle
engineering. This discipline does not support applications of product development or
management-type projects.
New Conceptual Materials and Common Science of Materials (E13)
The Discipline mainly supports research in the areas of new methods of material design and
characterization, new material preparation technology and digital manufacturing, multi-functional
integration of materials and devices, new composite and hybrid materials, new conceptual materials,
key materials of advanced manufacturing, key engineering materials, etc.
With the rapid development of materials science and constant evolution of new theories and
technologies, the research and application of materials are no longer rigidly adhered to the current
material system. It has now become a general trend to develop new conceptual materials and
cross-fused material systems to meet higher requirements put forwarded to the properties and
functions of materials. In the paradigm of fundamental research of materials science, it is highly
desired to resolve some pending common scientific problems facing new materials, such as the
design, preparation, characterization, performance regulation and fracture characteristics. At the
same time, many key bottleneck issues encountered in national major engineering are expected to
be solved by developing new conceptual materials and coordination of multi-material systems.
Therefore, to meet the strong demand of national major industrial technology for pure, superior,
Funding Scope and Instructions
73
unique and new materials, this Discipline will focus on the key common science issues of materials
science, as well as the new conceptual and revolutionary materials leading future technology, to
advance the integrated development of materials and engineering technology.
This Discipline focuses on supporting fundamental research and applied fundamental
research in three aspects: leading cross materials, key commonalities and technical support.
Specifically, (1) it focuses on leading materials and interdisciplinary research, such as new
conceptual materials, new composite and hybrid materials, multi-functional integration of materials
and devices. It encourages initiating projects to develop new materials with unique property and
more superior performance to traditional materials; design multi-functional integrated materials and
devices facing intelligence and information, and reveal the principles of collective response and
cooperative function of materials, structures and systems; develop composite and hybrid materials
with multi-scale, multi-dimensional, and multi-degree-of-freedom interaction. (2) It focuses on
supporting the research on key commonality of materials, including new methods of material
design and characterization, new material preparation technology and digital manufacturing, etc. It
encourages initiating projects to establish theories and models for the materials design and
performance prediction, explore new paradigm for material preparation and digital manufacturing,
and develop advanced in-situ and ex-situ material characterization techniques to probe the
electronic structure, surface and interface, defects, etc. (3) It focuses on supportive materials
research, including key materials for advanced manufacturing and engineering. It encourages
initiating projects to develop new materials facing high-end manufacturing and national major
engineering, seek breakthrough of key materials and technologies, and improve the whole chain
connection, cross integration and practical application of new materials in key fields of national
advanced manufacturing and engineering.