Department of Health Sciences
The Department adheres to target the global science frontiers, serve the main economic
battlefield, strive to fulfill the significant needs of the country, and benefit people’s lives and health.
It mainly supports the basic research that aims at scientific issues in disease prevention, control and
treatment, and focuses on the structural, functional, developmental, genetic and immune
abnormalities of human body, as well as the occurrence, development, outcome, diagnosis,
treatment and prevention of disease. It also supports researchers to conduct innovative research in
basic medicine, clinical medicine, preventive medicine, materia medica, pharmacology, traditional
Chinese medicine, Chinese materia medica and interdisciplinary fields of medicine and engineering,
so as to improve the level of medical scientific research in China.
Basic research is the activity to realize natural phenomena, reveal natural laws, put forward
and resolve scientific issues. The Department encourages research areas as follows: innovative
academic thinking and methodological research on the scientific issues emerging from clinical
practices; systematic and indigenous research on key scientific issues; translational medical
research combining basic medicine with clinical medicine; integrative medical research on the
occurrence, development and regression of diseases at various levels from molecular, cellular,
Funding Scope and Instructions
83
tissue level to organ, individual and population level by using new multidisciplinary and
comprehensive techniques or methods; in-depth research on the basis of existing findings and
previous research evidence; interdisciplinary research integrated in other fields; substantive
international joint research. The Department will give priority to funding basic research on major
diseases that are important to the national economy and people’s livelihood, sudden/emerging
public health problems, and common and frequently occurring diseases that severely endanger
people’s health. The Department will also highlight research in distinctive fields, support relatively
weak research fields, and ensure balanced, coordinated and sustainable development of all fields.
Instructions:
1. Specific instructions for applicants
(1) Applicants are encouraged to carry out in-depth basic research toward scientific issues,
especially the original research. Applications with solid previously accumulated research work are
encouraged to carry out further systematic research. Those tracking others’ without innovative
scientific ideas, or applications merely pursuing new high-technology rather than scientific novelty
will not be in consideration for grant.
(2) Applicants are expected to elaborate the scientific and potential clinical values of the
anticipated research results in detail. Applicants are suggested to propose a defined scientific issue
or a specific hypothesis based on analysis of the relevant latest literatures and research progress in
the field. Furthermore, elucidation of theoretical and applicable value of the research is needed.
(3) Applicants are expected to elaborate whether the proposed research will possibly solve
the specific scientific problems or verify the hypothesis, and the proposed research is supposed to
be specific, feasible and logical. Furthermore, applicants are expected to propose adequate research
content, detailed research design, clear research method and reasonable budget.
(4) Applicants are expected to provide detailed information about relevant previous research.
In case of extension of previously funded project, the innovative ideas and further scientific
problems of research are expected to be elaborated in detail. Besides, all the relevant published
papers are expected to be listed, and relevant unpublished results including experimental data,
tables or graphics, etc., are suggested to be provided.
(5) Applicants are expected to provide true and accurate information in their applications,
including the resume of applicant and major participants, previous grant information and relevant
publications. Please fill in the published academic papers according to the instructions and outlines
of application form. Patents and awards should also be listed according to the format and
requirements of the application form.
(6) Applicants are expected to provide a signed institutional certification or approval (the
scanning copy should be attached to the electronic proposal) to meet the related ethical or informed
consent requirement if applications are involved in special medical research objects such as human
tissues. Applications that do not provide certification or approval as required above will not be
funded.
(7) Applicants are expected to follow all appropriate guidelines for the use and handling of
pathogenic microorganisms, including the guideline “Bio-safety Administrative Rules of
Pathogenic Microorganism in Lab” released by the State Council of China and the ethical and
bio-safety regulations by other governmental agencies. If applications were involved in human
genetic resources, applicants should strictly follow “Regulations on Management of Human
Genetic Resources”. Additionally, a commitment letter to guarantee bio-safety should be provided
by the research institutions when applications were involved in the study of highly pathogenic
microorganisms. Applications that do not provide certification or approval as required above will
not be funded.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
84
(8) Applicants with good performance records in their previous grants will be given priority
on equal conditions.
(9) Applicants are expected to notice that: in 2021, the Department will generally not give
further funding for General Program to applicants who either have got intensive funding in 2020
from NSFC (such as Key Program, Key International (Regional) Joint Research Program, Major
Program, Key Program of Major Research Plan or Programs of Joint Funds, Special Fund for
Research on National Major Research Instruments), or are applying for repetitive or similar
research to their ongoing national scientific projects funded by other governmental agencies.
(10) Applicants are expected to provide PDF copies of no more than 5 representative papers
in their electronic applications (Applicant’s papers only).
2. General overview of applications in the Department in recent years and instructions
to host institutions
The number of applications has been increasing in the Department ever since its
establishment. In 2020, the number of applications was 85,029 from 1094 research institutions,
accounting for 30.24% of the total applications (281,170) in NSFC, including 33,691 applications
for General Program which account for 29.85% of the total applications (112,885), 38,363
applications for Young Scientists Fund which account for 34.06% of the total applications
(112,642), and 8,170 applications for Fund for Less Developed Regions which account for 36.77%
of the total applications (22,222). To enable the healthy, stable and sustainable development of both
science foundation and medical research in China, the research institutions are required to further
strengthen their management in the process of NSFC grant applications, and make efforts to further
improve the scientific quality of applications (rather than increasing the number of applications)
under the guidance of “Requirements of NSFC for Host Institutions to Improve Management of
Scientific Projects”.
3. Specific explanations on application codes
The application codes of Department of Health Sciences are composed of 35 primary
application codes (H01 to H35) and many relevant secondary codes. The basic characteristics of the
application codes are as following: (1) the primary application codes, which are mainly arranged in
the order of organs or systems, include research areas relevant to both basic and clinical research, in
an effort to ensure that applications on similar scientific issues from different disciplines are
reviewed in the same reviewing system; (2) the secondary application codes, which are arranged in
the order from basic to clinical research and from structural, functional and developmental
abnormalities to diseases, cover both basic and clinical research relevant to the given organ or
system.
The applicants are expected to carefully choose the primary application code and the
relevant secondary one. For more details, please refer to the following contents in the Guide of
each division of the Department.
Special instructions for applicants are as follows:
The Department sets up the oncology discipline separately. Please select the
corresponding secondary application code under Oncology (H18) for all kinds of
tumor-related medical scientific researches except for hematological tumor, epidemiology of
tumor, oncological pharmacology, medical imaging of tumor and tumor traditional Chinese
medicine. The proposals on hematological tumor should be submitted to the corresponding
secondary application code under Hematological System (H08); the proposals on tumor
epidemiology should be submitted to the Epidemiology of Noncommunicable Diseases (H3010);
the proposals on oncological pharmacology should be submitted to Anti-tumor Pharmacology
(H3505); the proposals on medical imaging and biomedical engineering of tumor should be
submitted to the corresponding secondary application code under Medical Imaging/Nuclear
Funding Scope and Instructions
85
Medicine (H27) and Biomedical Engineering/Regeneration Medicine (H28); the proposals on
traditional Chinese medicine tumor research should be submitted to Traditional Chinese Medicine
(H31), Chinese Materia Medica (H32), or Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine (H33).
The field of Radiation Medicine (H29) mainly covers the research of radiology toxicology
and pathology, radiological hygiene and protection, and non-oncology radiotherapy, and does not
fund applications of radiodiagnostics and oncology radiotherapy. For the applications of
radiodiagnostics, please select the appropriate secondary application code under Medical
Imaging/Nuclear Medicine (H27). For the applications of tumor radiotherapy, please select the
application code (H1816).
The field of Gerontology (H19) only funds research on the pathogenesis and intervention of
diseases related to the mechanisms of aging. Applications that focus on age-associated diseases that
do not involve pathophysiological mechanisms of aging should be submitted to other proper
divisions.
Applications that focus on neonatal diseases should be submitted to Reproductive
System/Perinatology/Neonatology (H04). For other scientific issues in pediatrics, please select the
application code of the corresponding system.
Applications that focus on sexually transmitted diseases should be submitted to the
application code (H2208) under Human Pathogens and Infections (H22).
4. Funding plan and budget
The average funding intensity of direct cost for various projects in 2021 is expected to be
basically the same as that in 2020. Please apply for funds reasonably according to the actual needs
of the work and fill in the fund budget table.
5. Special projects of General Programs: guidelines for “Exploration of Scientific
Problems Derived from Clinical Practice”
The exploration of scientific problems derived from clinical practice is not only an
important way to realize and improve the transformation from basic research to clinical practice,
but also the source of putting forward major medical scientific issues. Based on clinical practice, it
is of great value to innovate research methods, carry out research on the occurrence, development,
diagnosis, prevention and treatment of diseases, discover and explain new mechanisms, improve
the level of medical innovation, and promote the transfer of basic research achievements to clinical
practice.
The Department encourages the combination of clinical practice and basic research, the
interdisciplinary research and the innovation of clinical research methods, promotes the
development of clinical research and medical science in China, and improves the funding pattern of
medical research. In 2021, it is planned to set up the special project of “Exploration of Scientific
Problems Derived from Clinical Practice” in General Programs, with about 50 projects funded and
average funding of direct cost about 800,000 yuan per project. The following research is supported:
(1) Important scientific problems are summarized based on clinical phenomena and problems
discovered in clinical practice, rather than purely scientific research from the literature. (2) With the
help of clinical tissue samples collected under strict conditions in clinical trials, the relevant
mechanisms can be deeply discussed and discovered, so as to achieve the research of important
guiding significance for the diagnosis, treatment, prevention and treatment of diseases. (3)
Exploratory clinical research based on the transformation of original basic research achievements.
According to the research field, applicants shall independently choose the secondary
application code under the primary application codes of H01─H35, and indicate “Exploration of
Scientific Problems Derived from Clinical Practice” in the annotated column of the application
form. The research should be in line with the above three directions. It should be clearly introduced
in applications that the new phenomenon of clinical discovery or the new discovery that can be
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
86
transformed into clinical practice from the previous basic research, the originality and innovation of
the research, and the protection of independent intellectual property rights. This special project
does not fund clinical research already carried out by hospitals and enterprises. For projects
involving clinical research, the host institution should be qualified as a drug clinical trial institution.
The applications for the special projects are limited to General Program.
Funding in Department of Health Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Developed
Regions
Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%)
I Respiratory system, circulatory
system, hematological system 526 28,946 15.15 477 11,400 12.27 99 3,347 12.22
II
Digestive system, urinary system,
endocrine system, metabolism, and
nutrition support, ophthalmology,
otorhinolaryngology head and neck
science, oral and
craniomaxillo-facial science
646 35,588 13.24 634 15,176 11.22 109 3,708 11.28
III Nervous system, mental health and
psychological health, gerontology 423 23,338 15.43 382 9,136 12.24 60 2,026 9.65
IV
Reproductive system/perinatal
medicine/neonatology, medical
immunology, medical genetics
273 15,057 15.82 267 6,384 12.42 40 1,362 10.87
V
Special medicine, forensic medicine,
medical imaging/nuclear medicine,
biomedical engineering/regenerative
medicine
257 14,189 12.83 247 5,856 10.33 33 1,109 10.15
VI
Locomotor System, emergency and
intensive care medicine,
trauma/burns/plastic surgery,
rehabilitation medicine, medical
virology and virus infection, Human
Pathogens and Infections, laboratory
medicine
431 23,732 12.16 399 9,544 10.57 81 2,755 10.53
VII Oncology (hematological system not
included) 859 47,386 12.84 914 21,776 11.59 145 4,950 8.86
VIII Dermatology, radiation medicine,
preventive medicine 262 14,504 17.15 243 5,768 15.74 55 1,912 14.25
IX Materia medica, pharmacology 274 15,152 16.39 320 7,600 15.94 60 2,029 13.16
X
Traditional Chinese medicine,
Chinese materia medica, integrated
Chinese and western medicine
633 34,828 11.64 622 14,880 10.46 235 8,002 12.83
Total or average 4,584 252,720 13.61 4,505 107,520 11.74 917 31,200 11.22
Direct cost per project 55.13 — 34.02
Division I of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic research on the diseases of respiratory, circulatory, and
hematological systems.
Respiratory System (H01)
The Discipline mainly supports the basic research focusing on the diseases of lung, airway,
pulmonary circulation, mediastinum, pleura, thorax, diaphragm and other related diseases. The
Funding Scope and Instructions
87
funding areas includes: respiratory system structure, function and developmental abnormalities;
respiratory system infections, inflammations and immunity; environmental factors and airway
diseases; bronchial asthma; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; bronchiectasis; pulmonary
circulation and pulmonary vascular disease; interstitial lung diseases; acute lung injury and acute
respiratory distress syndrome; sleep disordered breathing and breathing regulation; respiratory
failure and respiratory support; pleura, mediastinum, thoracic and diaphragm related diseases;
respiratory intervention, tracheal reconstruction and lung transplantation. Researches on new
methods and strategies related to respiratory diseases also belong to its funding areas.
In present, proposals received in the respiratory system mainly focus on the areas of
respiratory infections, inflammations and immunity, bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary diseases, pulmonary circulation and pulmonary vascular diseases, interstitial lung
disease, acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The number of application in
other areas is relatively small.
Accumulating attention has been drawn to the impact of emerging, sudden out-breaking
respiratory infectious diseases and environmental factors on human health. This discipline
encourages studies of pathogenic mechanism, immune function imbalance and related pathological
research, including research on scientific topics such as inflammation microenvironment, tissue
damage and repair, pulmonary fibrosis; encourages studies of environmental and occupational
factors (e.g. airborne fine particles, harmful gases, smoke and allergens, etc.) on the physiological
functions of airway and lungs, and related pathological changes and underlying mechanisms;
encourage studies of alveolar and blood barrier, pulmonary fluid transport and pulmonary edema,
pulmonary epithelial atypical hyperplasia and nodular lesions; encourage studies on lung stem cells
and lung regeneration.
This discipline will continue to support the studies of extra pulmonary organ damage related
to sleep disordered breathing; support the studies of biological treatment of respiratory diseases;
support the studies on new strategies for precise diagnosis and treatment of diseases, as well as
studies on potential molecular markers and intervention targets. Break-through research methods
and strategies play an important role in promoting clinical and basic research in the respiratory field.
Therefore, this discipline encourages applicants to combine modern biological technologies, such
as multi-omics technology, big data technology and humanized animal models, to promote related
research in this research field.
Most of applicants in the respiratory field are from the frontline of the clinic. Therefore, this
discipline encourages applicants to capture research topics from the clinic, extract scientific
questions, and translate into research proposals after preliminary experimental validation. The
advancement of basic research in the respiratory field is inseparable from the participation of
scientific researchers focusing on basic science research, so basic science researchers are welcomed
to engage in studies focusing on the respiratory field, and the cooperation between clinical experts
and basic researchers are also encouraged and welcomed.
Circulatory System (H02)
The Discipline mainly supports basic researches in the growth and development, physiology,
pathophysiology, and diseases of cardiovascular and lymphatic system. In recent years, the number
of applications in the field of cardiac/vascular injury and protection was the largest, followed by
atherosclerosis, coronary heart diseases, arrhythmia and heart failure. In addition, there were
numerous applications related to non-coding RNA, but the innovation and unique characteristics of
those projects were insufficient. Applicants are encouraged to carry out original basic research,
cooperate with clinicians, developmental and genetic biologists, regenerative medicine specialists
and other related disciplines to study on the mechanisms in the development and therapeutic
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
88
strategy of cardiovascular diseases. In the cutting-edge fields of cardiovascular diseases,
researchers are encouraged to establish international collaborations, to propose innovational
hypothesis based on their own research data, and eventually gain achievements with independent
intellectual properties. Researches on the regulatory and damage mechanisms of the biological
active substances on the heart and vessels are encouraged to find the potential biomarkers for
diagnosis, therapeutic targets and innovative treatment technologies. Studies on the molecular
etiology, regulatory network and intervention targets of the metabolic disorder related
cardiovascular diseases are encouraged, and the effects of other systemic diseases on the
cardiovascular system are also encouraged. Infectious cardiovascular diseases, immune-related
circulatory system diseases, microcirculatory diseases, lymphatic circulatory diseases, and
tumor-related cardiovascular diseases are still the comparatively weak fields, and relevant
researches are encouraged. Studies on cardiovascular diseases in children and sex-related
cardiovascular diseases are required to be strengthened. Researches and applications of new
techniques, new methods and new materials in the cardiovascular field are supported. The basic
researches for important clinical issues in the circulatory device implantation and perioperative
period of cardiovascular surgery are encouraged.
Hematological System (H08)
The Discipline mainly supports original basic research of hematopoietic tissue/organs, blood
system and its related diseases including hematopoiesis, hematopoiesis regulation and
hematopoietic microenvironment; erythrocyte and its related diseases; leukocyte and its related
diseases; megakaryocyte, platelet and their related diseases; bleeding, coagulation, fibrinolysis and
thrombosis; aplastic anemia and bone marrow failure; myelodysplastic syndromes;
myeloproliferative diseases; leukemia; lymphoma and lymphatic diseases; myeloma and plasma
cell diseases; blood system disease associated infection and the treatment; hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation and its complications; immunotherapy for hematologic diseases; blood transfusion,
blood regeneration and blood products; new technologies and methods for hematological disease
research.
In recent years, most applications are concentrated in the areas of hematopoiesis,
hematopoiesis regulation and hematopoietic microenvironment, leukemia, lymphoma and
lymphatic diseases, myeloma and plasma cell diseases, stem cell transplantation and its
complications. Applications in other areas are relatively low in number. Immune and cell therapies
have been shown to play critical roles in the treatment of blood diseases. This year, a new
application code: Immunotherapy for blood diseases is added under H08. Any basic or clinical
based basic researches in this area may apply under this code.
Diseases in hematological system are a type of diseases that severely affect the health of
human beings. The etiology, pathogenesis, precision diagnosis and treatment have always been the
support focus in hematologic area. The Division thus encourages applications in the fields of:
hematopoietic microenvironment and the clonal evolution of hematologic malignancies;
metabolism of hematological malignancies and its clinical correlation such as drug resistance;
precision diagnosis and treatment for hematologic diseases; biotherapy in hematology field,
including HSC transplantation, immunotherapy, gene therapy; basic and applied basic research
using gene editing and new immuno-technologies.
The Discipline also supports applications in the following fields such as: disease related
basic researches in areas of hematopoiesis, hematopoiesis regulation and hematopoietic
microenvironment, hematopoietic development, differentiation and its lineage mapping;
hematological disease-omics, hematologic biomarkers and their clinical application validation; in
vitro regeneration and expansion of functional blood cells; studies of normal or abnormal blood
Funding Scope and Instructions
89
cells using new biotechnologies such as single cell technology or multi-omics.
There is an excellent and closely related solid research foundation in both basic and clinical
basic research in the field of hematology in China. Applicants are thus encouraged to make full use
of rich clinical resources in the field, to propose basic applications that arise from clinical problems,
to carry out relevant research, and to strengthen translational medical research.
For projects involving research contents of pulmonary circulation and pulmonary
vascular diseases, the applicant shall choose the appropriate application code from the
respiratory system (H01) and the circulatory system (H02) according to their specific
scientific topics. Division I does not support the applications of non-hematological malignancy
projects. For details, please refer to the general introduction of the Department.
Division II of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic researches on digestive system, urinary system,
endocrine system/metabolism and nutrition support, ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology, head and
neck science, as well as oral and craniomaxillo-facial science.
Digestive System (H03)
The Discipline mainly supports studies on the related to various non-communicable and
non-neoplastic diseases of the digestive system. The number of applications for projects in the field
of digestive system research in 2020 increased by 20.72% over 2019. The applications on liver
diseases, such as liver fibrosis, cirrhosis and portal hypertension, are still the most dominant
research areas in this division. Other research topics in hepatology include metabolic liver disease,
liver regeneration, hepato-protection, liver failure and artificial extracorporeal liver support. In the
field of GI diseases, applications on internal environment disturbance of GI tract, intestinal mucosal
barrier impairment and related diseases, mechanisms of immune-related diseases of gastrointestinal
tract, abnormal GI motility and GI functional disorders are among the primary focuses. There are
fewer applications in areas such as vascular and circulatory disorders of digestive system, abnormal
endocrine and neurohumoral regulation of digestive system, abnormal structure and function of
abdominal wall/peritoneum structure, abnormal gastric acid secretion and acid related diseases and
hereditary diseases of the digestive system. The total number of items mentioned above was 91,
accounting for only 2.49% of the total number of items. The young researchers are mainly focused
on liver and intestinal diseases, liver fibrosis, liver cirrhosis, metabolic liver disease, inflammatory
bowel disease, intestinal mucosal barrier, and so on. The number of applications for the Youth
Science Fund significantly exceeded the number of regular projects. The important area of concern
of intestine in recent years is the relationship between homeostasis and digestive system diseases
and its role in the occurrence, development and treatment of diseases. The NSFC encourage the
basic and clinical research on the key frontier issues in the above-mentioned fields. The Division
also encourages the research of the role of the interaction among the various organs of the digestive
system in the pathogenesis of digestive diseases.
Urinary System (H05)
The Discipline is to focus on the structural and functional disorders of the kidney, ureter,
bladder, prostate and urethra, not including tumor research. The number of applications received in
2020 increased by 14.53% compared with that in 2019. Popular research topics are still in areas of
the prevention and treatment of acute kidney injury and chronic kidney diseases, under the code of
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
90
the injury and repair of the urinary system, followed by the secondary renal diseases, the primary
kidney disease and the renal failure. The number of urolithiasis proposals in 2020 decreased
compared with that in 2019. The number of proposals related to kidney transplantation, urinary
tract infection, benign prostatic and bladder diseases, urinary continence and micturition
disturbance diseases in 2020 were similar to that in 2019. Fewer proposals were received in the
area of urinary tract infection, abnormal structure, function and development of urinary system;
attention is necessary to be paid to these areas. The NSFC will continue to support the continuous
and innovative researches in urinary system.
Endocrine System, Metabolism, and Nutrition Support (H07)
The Discipline mainly supports studies on abnormity of endocrine organ structure and/or
function and relative non-neoplastic chronic diseases. Supported areas include various diseases of
the endocrine system, classical or non-classical endocrine tissue function and dysfunction,
metabolic disorders, clinical malnutrition, and relevant therapeutic treatment. The number of total
applications increases by 17.25% in 2020 relative to 2019, and the distributions of major research
areas remain unchanged. The majority of the proposals are still centered on diabetes and
diabetes-related diseases, followed by the projects investigating energy metabolism/obesity.
Compared with 2019, bone disease decreased slightly, while thyroid disease increased slightly. In
contrast, there are few applications on water/electrolyte metabolic disorders, acid-base imbalance,
amino acid metabolic abnormality, aberrant adrenal gland development and/or structures in 2020.
The important clinical researches will continue to be emphasized and considered preferentially or
funding in the future. Similarly, researches around the discovery of new phenomena and new
questions in the clinic and innovative approaches/designs will be encouraged. These areas with
minor applications but significant clinical research value will continue to be emphasized and
supported in the future. Similarly, researches around the discovery of new phenomena and new
questions in the clinic and innovative approaches/designs will be encouraged.
Ophthalmology (H13), Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Science (H14),
Oral and Craniomaxillo-Facial Science (H15)
The Discipline mainly supports non-neoplasm diseases of related fields. The field of
ophthalmology mainly supports the research in the related fields of non-neoplasm diseases. They
are focused on the inflammatory, immune related, genetic, degenerative, and neovascular eye
diseases. The number of applications in ophthalmic research increased by 13.31% in 2020
compared with that in 2019. The research on fundus diseases remains to be the most concentrated
area, followed by corneal diseases, glaucoma, optic nerve and visual pathway related diseases and
optometry diseases. Diabetic retinopathy, retinal/choroidal neovascular diseases, refractive error
and age-related macular degeneration remain to be the hot fields of ophthalmic research. The
Division encourages extracting the scientific issues around clinical bottlenecks such as prediction,
diagnosis and treatment of diseases, clarifying the mechanisms of occurrence and development in
diseases, obtaining original scientific research achievements and promoting basic research to guide
clinical diagnosis and treatment.
The field of otorhinolaryngology head and neck science mainly funds research on new
techniques and methods for non-neoplastic diseases and functional reconstruction caused by
structural and functional abnormalities in related regions. The number of applications in 2020
increased by 17.07% over that in 2019, and mainly focused on hearing abnormality and balance
disorders, diseases of the olfactory system, the nose and the anterior skull base, and disease of
throat and neck. The mechanism of hearing impairment as well as the strategies for hearing
restoration is the key issues of auditory science, including the genetics and molecular mechanisms
Funding Scope and Instructions
91
underlying the pathogenesis for various types of deafness, and the signal pathways related to
hearing impairments as well as the antagonistic therapies, etc. In the field of rhinology, research
mainly focuses on the pathogenesis and development of rhinosinusitis and the pathogenesis and
immunotherapy of allergic rhinitis. Research on laryngopharyngeal diseases focuses on respiratory
disorders, phonetic disorders, and functional reconstruction. The research on the mechanism and
intervention of auditory development and degeneration, tinnitus, hyperacusis, vertigo and olfactory
disorder is an important research direction, and the interdisciplinary studies with artificial
intelligence, new imaging technology, biomaterials, biomechanics, 3D printing technology,
mathematical algorithms and other fields has begun to receive much attention, and will be funded
continuously. Further attention should be paid to the reconstruction techniques of the
otolaryngology-related dysfunctions, including nerve injury, olfactory disorder, breathing disorder,
phonation disorder and swallowing disorder, etc.
The field of oral and craniofacial sciences (OCS) mainly supports research on
craniomaxillo-facial tissues, organs and non-neoplastic diseases. The number of project
applications in 2020 increased by 18.6% compared to 2019. In 2020, the OCS project applications
were still focused on periodontal and oral mucosal diseases, followed by the prosthodontic and
orthodontic fields of tooth defects, missing and dentognathic deformities, and oral and
maxillofacial tissue biomechanics and biomaterials. The studies of tooth/bone development and
regeneration, the application and mechanism of stem cells and exosomes, the biomechanics of oral
and maxillofacial tissues and the research of biomaterials were still hot topics of concern. In
addition, the number of applications for cross-research in fields such as artificial intelligence and
additive manufacturing has increased year by year. This discipline encourages the integration of
different directions of oral craniofacial science and the interdisciplinary research with other
disciplines.
Division II does not support oncology research. All applications on oncology research
in those areas please refer to the general introduction of the Department. Division II does not
support researches on drug design and pharmacology as well. Please submit the related
proposals to Division IX (H34, H35). Proposals on the male reproductive system and male
sexual dysfunction are not included in code H05, so please submit related proposals to
Division IV (H04).
Division III of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic research in the fields of nervous system, mental health,
and geriatrics.
Nervous System (H09)
The Discipline provides funding support for researches on the etiology, pathogenesis,
diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of various non-neoplastic neurological diseases, including
common neurological diseases (e.g., cerebrovascular diseases, cognitive dysfunction,
neurodevelopmental disabilities, injury and rehabilitation of nervous system, neurodegenerative
disorders, epilepsy, pain and analgesia), and rare neurological diseases. Division III also supports
diagnosis, pathogenesis and therapy studies on inherited metabolic, autoimmune and infectious
diseases of the nervous system, as well as studies on neurobiological mechanisms underlying
anesthesia and sedation, and comorbidity of neurological diseases and psychiatric disorders.
In recent years, funded projects in the field of nervous system predominantly focused on
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
92
cerebrovascular diseases, cognitive dysfunction, injury and rehabilitation of nervous system, pain
and analgesia, in which there is a significant increase in applied projects from the perspectives of
glia, non-coding RNA, pyroptosis, autophagy, and exosomes to study neurological diseases.
However, most of the applied projects were follow-up studies and/or lack of originality. Division
III prioritizes the original studies regarding key scientific issues originated from clinical problems
and clinical cohort studies using advanced method, as well as interdisciplinary studies using
non-human primates, drosophila, and zebrafish model. Additionally, studies on the key
technologies and mechanisms for strengthening neural modulation to promote the function
recovery after nervous system injury are also the funding priority. Standard protocols of clinical
research is required in cerebrovascular diseases studies for promoting basic research around clinical
concerns, especially early intervention for neurovascular injury, revascularization, function
recovery, and application and effects of precise diagnosis and treatment in acute stroke and
neurotraumatic patients. Mechanisms underlying pain, especially chronic pain, and intervention
studies need to be strengthened by the collaboration of basic and clinical study. Research on
neurological diseases of the nervous system in children has been an ongoing concern of the
Division. In addition, it is encouraged to perform substantial cooperative research in clinical and
basic medicine, materials, bioinformatics and artificial intelligence.
Mental Health and Psychological Health (H10)
The Discipline provides funding support for researches on the etiology, pathogenesis,
diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of psychobehavioral disorder, including common psychiatric
diseases (e.g., anxiety disorder, depressive disorder, schizophrenia), as well as sleep disorders, drug
dependence and other addictive disorders, stress-related disorders, neurodevelopmental disorders,
psychological evaluation and intervention of psychiatric disorders, and new technology/method
used for psychiatric diseases and psychological health research.
One of the hallmarks in the spectrum of modern human disease is the rapidly increased
prevalence of psychological and psychiatric diseases. Elucidation of the etiology, pathogenesis and
biological basis is the key issue in psychological and psychiatric disease studies, which is beneficial
for early detection, objective diagnosis, and etiological treatment. In recent years, funded projects
in the field of mental health predominantly focused on depressive disorder, anxiety disorder, and
schizophrenia rather than biological rhythm disorders related diseases and psychological evaluation
and intervention of psychobehavioral disorders. Due to the weak foundation in the field of child
and adolescent mental health studies in China, researchers in this field are encouraged to carry out
relevant research. Studies on the role of genetic, environmental and other factors in the occurrence
and development of psychobehavioral disorders are encouraged to discover potential etiological
and intervention targets, and to establish biological markers monitor system representing the
occurrence, development and prognosis of psychological and psychobehavior disorders.
Psychological and behavioral examination technology should be optimized to realize the early
detection and diagnosis of psychological and psychobehavior disorders. The interdisciplinary
cooperation between psychiatry and other disciplines is encouraged, which improves the diagnosis
and treatment of psychological disorders and mental diseases in China by implementing early
intervention and treatment using pharmacological or non-pharmacological methods.
Gerontology (H25)
The Discipline mainly covers the studies on pathophysiological mechanisms of aging and
aging-related diseases. To fulfill the major national requirements of aging population in China,
investigation should be performed to elucidate the pathophysiological changes and its mechanism
of aging at organ, tissue, cell, subcellular and molecular levels. Focused studies on the
Funding Scope and Instructions
93
physiological mechanisms underlying aging of organ, tissue or cell should be performed to
elucidate the relationship between genetic, metabolic, injury, stress and inflammation factors and
organ/tissue aging as well as aging related diseases. It is encouraged to perform new technologies,
methods and interdisciplinary research regarding to aging and related diseases, as well as to study
on the mechanisms underlying caloric restriction, exercise and small molecule chemicals that
delays aging of tissues and organs, to provide a theoretical basis for the prevention, early warning,
diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of aging related diseases.
Division III does not provide funding support for tumor related studies, for which
please refer to the general introduction of the Department. The field of gerontology does not
support the project application of senile diseases in organs or systems unrelated to aging
mechanism, for which please select other corresponding application codes.
Division IV of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic and translational research in the areas of reproductive
system/perinatal medicine/neonatology, medical immunology and medical genetics.
Reproductive System/Perinatal Medicine/Neonatology (H04)
The Discipline mainly supports basic and translational research on structure/function/
development abnormalities, injury and repair, inflammation and infection, endocrine abnormalities
and related disease of the reproductive system, the mammary structure/function/development
abnormalities, sexual dysfunction, gametogenesis and fertilization, embryo implantation,
maternal-fetus interaction, reproductive immunity and related diseases, assisted reproduction,
placental structure/function and development abnormalities, pregnancy related diseases, fetal
development and fetal diseases, neonatal diseases, and development of novel techniques on
diagnosis and treatment for diseases of reproductive system and neonatus.
Research projects focus on establishing novel multidisciplinary technology platform to
study the molecular and cellular mechanisms of human reproductive and developmental diseases,
damage, remodeling and fertility protection of human reproductive organs, gametogenesis and
regulation of meiosis, the principle and abnormalities of human sperm-ovum recognition,
fertilization and early embryonic development, regulation of pregnancy establishment and
maintenance and the pathogenesis of related diseases; the effect of intrauterine and extrauterine
environment on the pregnancy outcome and descendant health; the novel mechanisms of neonatal
diseases; assisted reproduction and related safety evaluations based on the advances in regenerative
medicine, organoid and artificial intelligence. It is encouraged to condense the scientific questions
from clinical practice and to carry out original and translational research by means of the abundant
clinical and genetic resources in China. The novel research paradigm is needed to be established in
the study of reproductive medicine, perinatal medicine and neonatology by interdisciplinary
cooperation.
In 2020, there are more proposals for General Program, Young Scientist Fund, and Program
for Less Developed Region of this discipline, and which research areas are concentrated as
following: pregnancy related complications, neonatal diseases, female reproductive endocrine
abnormalities and related diseases, sperm development abnormalities and male infertility,
endometriosis and adenomyosis, abnormalities of embryo implantation and early embryonic
development, etc. The following research areas are suggested to be concerned: pubertal endocrine
regulation, pathogenesis of perimenopause related diseases, genetic disorders of reproductive
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
94
system, sexual dysfunction, inflammation and infection of reproductive system, mammary
development abnormalities and perinatal breast disorders; the effect of maternal nutrition,
environmental and genetic factors on pregnancy outcomes and descendant health; physiology of
parturition and abnormal labor, early diagnosis and treatment of congenital defects; the neonatal
acute diseases, critical care, chronic organ damages and neonatal nutrition, etc. The deficiencies in
proposal application are as follows: the proposals’ preliminary experimental basis is weak and
difficult to support the scientific hypothesis which is only derived from references and some simple
data; the research content of some projects lacks mechanism research in-depth; a few of projects
are descriptive, presupposition, transplantation and programmatically designed without innovation.
The field of reproductive system/perinatal medicine/neonatology (H04) does not
support the research related to tumor. For the project related to tumor, please refer to the
general introduction of the Department.
Medical Immunology (H11)
The Discipline mainly supports basic and translational research on the structure, function,
development, and/or residence of organs, cells and molecules of the immune system, as well as the
research on immune regulation and tolerance, immune homeostasis and injury, and immune
diagnosis and intervention.
Key research directions and areas include: the development and differentiation of immune
cells, the identification and function of novel immune cell subtypes, the structural basis and
activation of immune recognition, the formation and maintenance of immune memory, the
reconstruction and senescence of immune system, the immune response and its injury on hosts, the
epigenetic regulation on immune system and immune functions, the interaction between
metabolism and immunity, the interaction among neural system, endocrine system, and immune
system, the interaction between microbiota and immune system, the new targets of immunotherapy,
the new vaccines and adjuvants, the investigations of immune mechanism, specific diagnosis and
intervention strategies of infection, organ transplantation, cancer, autoimmune diseases, and various
chronic diseases using immunology theory and technology as well as multi-disciplinary new
technology methods, and the focus on discovery of new molecular pathways and effective
mechanisms for immunotherapy. It is encouraged to carry out interdisciplinary research between
immunology and bioinformatics, synthetic biology, biomechanics, nanoscience, etc. It is also
encouraged to condense the scientific hypothesis of immunology from preliminary research
discovery and clinical practice, to explore the immunological spectrum of important human
diseases, and to carry out innovative research based on clinical practice.
In 2020, there are more applications in autoimmune diseases, inflammation, infection and
immunity, organ transplantation and transplantation immunity, immune recognition, immune
tolerance and immune dysregulation, immune related factors and diseases, etc. The deficiencies in
proposal application are as follows: the experimental basis of some clinical disease-related research
projects is weak, which is difficult to support the scientific hypothesis; the design of some research
projects are presupposition, routine and transplantation, and lacks mechanism exploration in depth.
Medical Genetics (H23)
The Discipline mainly supports basic and translational research on the pathogenesis,
prevention and treatment of human genetic diseases and rare diseases, as well as development of
new technologies and methods in medical genetics.
The key research directions and areas include studying the genetic principles of genetic
diseases, discovering new pathogenicity genes, clarifying the pathogenesis and epigenetic
mechanisms caused by pathogenicity genes and their mutations during the onset and development
Funding Scope and Instructions
95
of diseases by use of the advantages of human genetic and clinical resources in China; and
exploring novel diagnosis methods and strategies of prevention and treatment. It is advised to
excavate and make full use of the resources of rare diseases in China, and to carry out basic
research in depth in the fields of resource protection, pathogenesis, prevention and diagnosis and
drug discovery for rare diseases. It is encouraged to employ multidisciplinary techniques to
perform cross-research on the genetic structure and regulatory mechanisms, and to develop new
strategies for diagnosis and intervention of human genetic and rare diseases.
Division V of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic research and basic clinical research in the fields of
special medicine, forensic medicine, medical imaging/nuclear medicine and biomedical
engineering/regenerative medicine.
Special Medicine (H24)
The Discipline is aimed at the unique medical support needs under special circumstances
(aeronautics, aerospace, navigation, deep diving, plateaus, polar regions, etc.), researching and
solving various special medical problems, and providing theoretical and technical support for major
national strategic needs. These studies will aim at understanding the physiological and pathological
changes and related mechanisms, on the level of molecules, cells, tissues, organs and the entire
human body, and revealing the regulatory mechanism of the body’s adaptive changes and
pathological damage in the special environment, as well as the key factors of the body’s tolerance
to extreme environments. On this basis, risk prediction and assessment techniques, as well as novel
protection techniques, are carried out for body damage under special environmental conditions.
Special medicine mainly supports research on pathophysiological changes and prevention methods
of related disease in special or extreme environments such as weightlessness, overweight, radiation,
hypoxia, high pressure, high temperature, high humidity, high cold, and small confined space. It is
encouraged to apply physics, chemistry, biology and biomedical engineering in the
above-mentioned fields, to carry out in-depth and systematic research on specific medical issues in
extreme environments, and to explore new theories and techniques for maintaining and enhancing
body functions and physical fitness under special environmental conditions. Integration of different
directions within special medicine and interdisciplinary research are also encouraged.
Forensic Medicine (H25)
The Discipline mainly funds research on resolving problems of biological, chemical and
medical evidence in the judicial practice, with human body and other related forensic
samples/materials as the research objects. The funding fields mainly include: identification of cause
of death, estimation of postmortem interval, injury and death mechanism and screening of forensic
markers, novel methods for evaluation of head injury, mechanism and assessment of personal
injury caused by environmental pollution; toxicant (drug) abuse and dependence, toxicant
metabolism and analysis; injury mechanism, AI identification of injured area, wound age inference
by multi-omics combined with AI; objective evaluation of mentally disabled people’s capacity and
responsibility; individual identification of difficult samples, identification of complex relationship,
tissue origin and family origin inference, multi-omics identification of identical twins, single-cell
sequencing and identification of mixed stain, and basic theory and application research on forensic
epigenomics. Applications of theories and technologies in other disciplines such as medicine,
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
96
biology, genetics, physics, chemistry, law, psychology, and information science are encouraged in
the aforementioned fields to conduct in-depth and systematic research on forensic science issues.
Interdisciplinary studies between forensic medicine and other disciplines such as medical imaging
and biomedical engineering are strongly supported, too.
Medical Imaging/Nuclear Medicine (H27)
The Discipline mainly funds research on imaging and applying imaging methods to solve
medical-related scientific problems. The scope includes diagnostic radiology (magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), conventional X-ray imaging and computed tomography), ultrasound medicine,
nuclear medicine, electromagnetic imaging, optical imaging, and interventional medicine.
Multidisciplinary exploratory research is encouraged in cutting-edge scientific fields such as new
imaging principles and imaging methods, new contrast agents, multimodal cross-scale imaging,
molecular imaging and molecular probes, functional imaging, imaging big data and artificial
intelligence, precision intervention, theranostics, and translational medicine. Application of new
imaging technologies is supported in research on the pathogenesis, early diagnosis and treatment,
prognosis and efficacy evaluation, and drug screening of various diseases.
Biomedical Engineering/Regenerative Medicine (H28)
Biomedical engineering is characterized by using the principles and methods of engineering
science to study and solve problems in biomedicine and improve the level of disease diagnosis and
treatment. It mainly includes related research involving the intersection of electronic information,
instrument science, material science and biomedicine.
The Discipline mainly funds such basic research as medical electronic engineering,
regenerative medicine, and nanomedicine with relation to disease prevention and early warning,
detection and diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. Main funding directions include: biomedical
signals and images, biomedical sensing, biomedical photonics, chips and micro-nano systems,
biomedical system modeling and simulation, medical information systems, rehabilitation
engineering, neural engineering and brain-computer interaction, treatment planning and navigation,
medical robots, biomedical instruments and medical devices, gene and drug carriers and delivery
systems, medical biological materials, tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, artificial
organs, etc. Such research is also supported as neural interface and control technology, biological
micro-electromechanical systems, biomedical smart materials, diagnostic and therapeutic
functional materials, 3D printing and tissue and organ construction, medical virtual reality and
augmented reality, cell and immunotherapy, tissue-like organ construction and application, and
health big data mining and medical artificial intelligence, etc.
In 2020, among the applications for funding in special medicine, forensic medicine, medical
imaging/nuclear medicine, and biomedical engineering/regenerative medicine, those in medical
imaging/nuclear medicine had the largest increment, with those on secondary codes evenly
distributed. The application volume and distribution in biomedical engineering/regenerative
medicine and special medicine did not change significantly, whereas the applications in forensic
medicine decreased slightly. In order to promote the further rapid development of special medicine,
forensic medicine, medical imaging/nuclear medicine, and biomedical engineering/regenerative
medicine, the Division encourages researchers with different academic backgrounds to cooperate in
multidisciplinary research work, supports original work, emphasize clinical application and the
transformation of clinical outcomes, and gives appropriate special support to young scholars who
conduct research in the above-mentioned fields.
Regarding medical imaging/nuclear medicine and biomedical engineering/regenerative
medicine, Division V does not accept applications on radiation oncology or radiation
Funding Scope and Instructions
97
prevention, which could be submitted to related codes in Division VII (H18) or Division VIII
(H29). Division V does not support applications in pharmacology and drug administration,
either, which should go to related codes in Division IX (H34, H35).
Division VI of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports the basic research and clinical basic research in the fields of
locomotor system, emergency and critical care medicine, trauma, burns, plastic surgery,
rehabilitation medicine, medical virology and virus infection, human pathogens and infections, and
laboratory medicine.
Locomotor System (H06)
The Discipline mainly supports the research on the abnormalities in structure, function and
development of the bone, joint, muscle, ligament, and related nerve, blood vessel and other tissues,
and the research in the etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prevention and cure of the
musculoskeletal diseases including the immune-related diseases, inflammation and infection, injury
and repair, grafting and reconstruction, fatigue and recuperation, degenerative disorders, sports
injury, deformity and correction. Meanwhile, the researches on the emerging scientific issues such
as medical biomaterials and artificial intelligence in musculoskeletal fields are highly encouraged.
In 2020, applications were mainly focused on the research fields in the musculoskeletal damage
and repair, and the degenerative diseases of bone, joint and soft tissue. In contrast, applications in
musculoskeletal fatigue and recuperation filed were still at quite low volume. This field encourages
the innovative and translational research based on clinical needs, the systematic and original
research on major scientific issues in locomotor system, the interdisciplinary research using new
techniques and methods, the cross-talk research between locomotor system and other organs and
tissues, and the research of aging and pain in locomotor system.
Emergency and Critical Care Medicine (H16)
The Discipline mainly supports the researches on sepsis, organ function failure and support,
cardiac-pulmonary resuscitation, poisoning, heat stroke, new technologies and methods in the field
of emergency and critical care medicine. The pathogenesis, accurate diagnosis and treatment and
scientific prevention in the field of emergency and critical care medicine should be paid more
attention to. Meanwhile, researches on pathophysiological changes and immune dysfunction in this
field are highly encouraged.
Trauma/Burns/Plastic Surgery (H17)
The Discipline mainly supports the researches on trauma, burns, chimatlon, wound healing
and scar management, repair, transplantation and reconstruction of surface tissues and organs,
craniomaxillo-facial deformity and its correction, new technologies and methods in the field of
trauma/burns/plastic surgery. The pathogenesis, accurate diagnosis and treatment and scientific
prevention in the field of trauma/burns/plastic surgery and malformation should be paid more
attention to. Meanwhile, researches on the following aspects are highly encouraged, which include
injury mechanisms, prevention and treatment of complications, tissue repair and function
reconstruction, wound healing, scar prevention and treatment, repair, reconstruction and
reengineering of body surface tissue and organ deformity and defect.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
98
Rehabilitation Medicine (H20)
The Discipline mainly supports the research on the rehabilitation mechanism of structural
abnormalities, disability, activity and participation limitations and the researches on the basic
scientific issues related to the evaluation and treatment of rehabilitation. At the same time, the
effects and mechanisms of kinesiotherapy, physical factors, occupational therapy and speech
therapy are highly encouraged. This field also encourages interdisciplinary and original research to
meet rehabilitation needs and the exploration of new techniques and methods in the treatment and
evaluation of rehabilitation.
Medical Virology and Virus Infection (H21)
The Discipline mainly supports the researches on diseases caused by medical viruses and
their infections, including respiratory viruses and infections, digestive tract viruses, picorna viruses
and infections, hepatitis viruses and infections, retroviruses and infections, herpes viruses and
infections, arboviruses and infections, hemorrhagic fever viruses and infections, human papilloma
virus, rabies virus, parvovirus, prion and other viruses and infection, focusing on etiology,
biological characteristics of viruses, host interaction, pathogenic mechanisms, epidemic
characteristics of infections, and new technologies, new methods, new strategies, and new
paradigms of medical virology for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention and control of
virus-related diseases. With the guarantee of ethics and biosafety, the program encourages
associated research on emerging and highly pathogenic and highly transmissible viruses and
infections.
Human Pathogens and Infections (H22)
The Discipline mainly supports the researches on the pathogenic bacteria, fungi, parasites,
and vectors of infectious diseases including the biology of bacteria, fungi, parasites, and medical
vectors and associated infections. The Discipline also supports research on the biology of
mycoplasma, chlamydia, rickettsia, spirochetes and associated infections, the mechanisms of drug
resistance and hospital-acquired infections, sexually transmitted disease, and the development of
new technologies and methods for the study of infectious diseases. The Discipline focuses on
genetic variation and evolution of pathogens, and molecular mechanisms of drug resistance and
pathogen-host interactions. With the guarantee of ethics and biosafety, the Discipline encourages
associated research on new and reemerging diseases and tropical diseases.
Laboratory Medicine (H26)
The Discipline mainly supports researches on biochemical test, microbiological analysis,
cytological examination, hematological examination, immunological test, molecular biology test,
and new technologies and methods in the field of laboratory medicine. Discoveries and
identification of new biomarkers of diseases, new technology of rapid and accurate detection, and
researches on new theories should be paid more attention to. The laboratory medicine researches on
interdisciplinary researches coupled with chemistry, physics, biosensing and artificial intelligence
are highly encouraged.
The fields of Locomotor System (H06), Emergency and Critical Care Medicine (H16),
and Trauma/Burns/Plastic Surgery (H17) do not support the oncology-related research,
please select the appropriate secondary application code under Oncology (H18). The field of
Rehabilitation Medicine (H20) neither supports research that is not directly related to
rehabilitation mechanism, evaluation and treatment, nor funds the projects of rehabilitation
engineering and rehabilitation of traditional Chinese medicine. For research only involved in
Funding Scope and Instructions
99
the occurrence and development of diseases, please select application codes of the
corresponding systems. For applications related to rehabilitation engineering and
rehabilitation of traditional Chinese medicine, please select the corresponding secondary
application codes under Biomedical Engineering/Regenerative Medicine (H28) and
Traditional Chinese Medicine (H31). The field of Laboratory Medicine (H26) does not
support research on clinical laboratory reference system and standardization, nor
pathogenesis and regulation pathways of diseases. In addition, for the applications related to
genetic resources, ethics, and highly pathogenic microorganisms, please see the general
introduction of the Department.
Division VII of Health Sciences
The Division mainly funds oncology research.
Oncology (H18)
Oncology research seeks to understand the nature of tumor biology and foster the progress
in tumor prevention, diagnosis and therapeutic strategies. On the one hand, it emphasizes to
decipher cancer etiology and molecular mechanisms governing cancer development, progression
and interaction of tumor with the human body. On the other hand, it aims to facilitate the transfer of
new knowledge from basic research into clinical application in tumor prevention, diagnosis and
treatment.
Oncology research encompasses basic research, translational and clinical research.
Proposals related to basic scientific questions, including tumor biological behaviors and the
intrinsic mechanisms of cancer, should select corresponding application codes for tumor etiology,
tumor occurrence, tumor cell fate, tumor genetics/evolution, tumor epigenetics, tumor immunology,
tumor metabolism, tumor microenvironment, tumor reoccurrence/metastasis, cancer stem cells, and
interdisciplinary research of cancer (application codes H1801─H1811). Proposals related to
translational research and clinical applications, including tumor prevention, diagnosis, and
treatment, should choose corresponding application codes for tumor prevention, tumor diagnosis,
chemotherapy, targeted therapy, radiotherapy, tumor physical therapy, tumor immune therapy,
tumor biological therapy, tumor comprehensive treatment, tumor treatment resistance, tumor
rehabilitation, oncology study focusing on distinct clinical characteristics, big data and artificial
intelligence, translational study of cancer, and new technology and methods in oncology research
(H1812─H1826).
Oncology research is one of the most active fields in medical sciences. With the rapid
development and understanding of cancer, there are some emerging trends in this field. (1) The
paradigm of cancer research switches from a micro, local view to a macro, systemic view. Thus,
instead of focusing on tumor cell alone, oncology research is extending to tumor microenvironment,
macroenvironment and emphasizes studying the interactions of tumors with the human body by
comprehensive investigation from molecular, cellular to tissues, organs and system levels. (2) Due
to the complexity of the nature of cancer, interdisciplinary integration becomes increasingly
important in cancer research. Advanced techniques from other frontiers fields have been employed
in tumor diagnosis and treatment. Thus, paradigm of oncology research switches from a model
mainly based on medicine and life sciences toward a new one which is featured by
cross-integration and coordinated development of multi-disciplines. The new paradigm emphasizes
the employment of interdisciplinary methods, including molecular structure, signal pathways,
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
100
animal models, bioinformatics, clinical medicine, preventive medicine, imageology, as well as
materials science, big data and artificial intelligence technology, mathematics, physics, chemistry,
etc., to promote the systematic advances in oncology research. (3) Advance in oncology research
increasingly depends on close cooperation of basic research and clinical practice. On the one hand,
due to insufficient understanding of the nature of cancer, there is a lack of effective prevention,
diagnosis and treatment methods in clinic. Therefore, breakthrough in basic research is prerequisite
for advance in translational and clinical research. On the other hand, the diversity and complexity
of tumor clinical features, as well as treatment responses, continue to raise new scientific questions
for basic research. To this end, a high degree of integration of clinical and basic research activities
should be strengthened to foster innovation in basic research and clinical application. (4)
Additionally, the exploration of cancer research continues to integrate the concepts, models, and
practical experiences of traditional medicine in the world to evoke a comprehensive and
complementary model of modern medicine and traditional medicine. Thus, it highlights the
importance to clarify the mechanisms of action, effectiveness, and safety of various treatments used
by traditional medicine in tumor management.
The initiation and progression of cancer is a complex multi-level, trans-scale and
intertwined process. It requires close cooperation of multidisciplinary investigators, as well as
integration of basic research and clinical practice, to unveil the so-called mesoscopic structure of
cancer, law of evolution and regulatory mechanisms of cancer that between the unit scale and the
system scale from different points and multiple layers, and to define the interactions and boundary
conditions inside and outside the system, as well as the connections between multiple layers. A new
paradigm of oncology research helps to deepen the understanding of mechanisms governing cancer
initiation and progression, prompting the development of more effective approaches of cancer
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Applicants are encouraged to discover and refine scientific questions from preliminary
research and clinical practice, and to systemically investigate the mechanisms of malignant tumors
for translational research and clinical improvement of cancer diagnosis and treatment, as well as to
develop multidisciplinary techniques and new methods for cancer research. Integrated research
proposals taking advantage of the clinical resources in China and studies focusing on common and
frequently-occurring tumors or rare cancers in Chinese population are also encouraged. In order to
develop comprehensive strategies for cancer managements, applicants are also encouraged to
conduct integrative studies by combining approaches of traditional medicine with modern medical
science.
Applicants should note that the proposals on tumor epidemiology should be submitted
to Division VIII (H30), and proposals on hematologic and lymphatic system tumors should be
submitted to Division I (H08).
Division VIII of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports the basic researches in fields of dermatology, radiation
medicine and preventive medicine.
Dermatology (H12)
The funding scope of dermatology covers the basic research on the abnormality of structure,
function and development of skin and its appendages, as well as immune-mediated, infectious,
hereditary, metabolic, traumatic and physicochemical skin diseases. In recent years, the results of
Funding Scope and Instructions
101
project application and funding show that the level of basic research on skin-related diseases has
improved rapidly, and research on skin and its appendages has shown a good trend. The basic
research on epidemiological, diagnostic and therapeutic techniques and methods of skin diseases
should be strengthened. Interdisciplinary and integrated researches with life science, physics,
chemistry, computer science and other disciplines should be encouraged.
Radiation Medicine (H29)
The funding scope of radiation medicine covers basic research on radiation injury and
intervention, radiation toxicology and radiopathology, radiological hygiene and protection. In
recent years, the number of project applications and the quality of the funding projects indicate that
great progress has been made in the scientific research and some studies have reached the
international advanced levels, although the volume of the researcher team engaged in Radiation
Medicine is small. While the funded projects mainly focus on radiological injury and intervention,
basic research on the early diagnosis and prevention of radiation damage should be further
strengthened. The Discipline attaches importance to the biological effects of low dose radiation and
radiation-induced bystander effects, encourages the fundamental researches of medical
radiobiology, promotes the establishment and development of a completed discipline system.
Preventive Medicine (H30)
The funding scope of preventive medicine covers the basic research on environmental
hygiene, occupational health and diseases, food hygiene, human nutrition, children and adolescent
health, maternal and child health care, hygienic toxicology, hygienic analytical chemistry,
infectious disease epidemiology, epidemiology of non-communicable disease, epidemiological
methods and medical statistics, behavior/psychological factors and health, endemiology. Based on
this new code system, occupational medicine and endemiology are integrated into the scope of
preventive medicine. The research of behavioral/psychological factors and health is added to
strengthen the prevention beforehand strategic layout of the disease control and prevention. It is
encouraged to carry out interdisciplinary and integrated researches and expand discipline areas and
research directions to constantly adapt to new health needs. Population-based data accumulation
and analysis of biological samples are encouraged.
In the field of Dermatology (H12), oncology-related researches are not funded, which
should be applied to Division VII (H18). In the field of Radiation Medicine (H29),
applications involved in cancer radiotherapy are not funded, and may refer to categories
under Division VII (H18), while applications for medical imaging and radiological diagnosis
are also not accepted, which should refer to categories under Division V (H27). Food Hygiene
(H3004) does not support the study only on food processing and relevant divisions of Life
Science are recommended. Applications for studying gynecologic diseases and pediatric
diseases are not accepted in the field of Maternal and Child Health Care (H3005), or Children
and Adolescent Health (H3006). The former may refer to categories under Division IV (H04),
and the latter depends on the classification of diseases. Applications on drug toxicology are
not supported by Hygienic Toxicology (H3007), which may refer to categories under Division
IX (H35). Researches on clinical test are not included in the category of Hygienic Analytical
Chemistry (H3008), which may refer to categories under Division VI (H26). Pharmaceutical
analyses which are excluded from H3008 may refer to Division IX (H34). The category of
Epidemiology (H3009, H3010) does not fund purely laboratory research projects that are
non-population-based. Applications for health economics and policy, hospital administration,
and other health management-related projects are not accepted in Epidemiology of
non-communicable disease (H3010), which may refer to related categories under Department
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
102
of Management Science. Applications for non-population-based studies of pure etiology,
treatment and prognosis will not be accepted in Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases (H3009),
which should refer to other relevant codes of the Department. Non-population based studies
of clinical and experimental research on psychosocial diseases will not be accepted in
Behavioral/Psychological Factors and Health (H3012), which should refer to relevant
application code of other divisions. Applications of disease projects without geographical
features are not accepted under the category of Endemiology (H3013). For related
applications, please select the application code of the relevant disease system.
Division IX of Health Sciences
The Division mainly supports basic researches in the discipline of materia medica and
pharmacology for diseases therapy.
Materia Medica (H34)
The field of materia medica covers research areas or sub-disciplines including synthetic
medicinal chemistry, medicinal chemistry of natural products, microbial drugs, biotechnological
drugs, marine drugs, special drugs and orphan drugs, drug design and drug informatics,
pharmaceutics, pharmaceutical materials, pharmaceutical analysis, drug resources, etc.
The discipline of materia medica provides emphasis on interdisciplinary researches, basic
researches of innovative drugs and druggability. Funding in synthetic medicinal chemistry focuses
on the research of active molecules based on new targets, new mechanisms or new structures, and
generally does not support the simple optimization research of active compounds for known targets.
Funding in medicinal chemistry of natural products and microbial drugs mainly provides to
innovative theories, technologies and approaches for drug discovery from plants, animals and
microorganisms. Funding in biotechnological drugs mainly supports researches on innovative
biotechnologies or approaches to obtain biotechnological drugs including therapeutic antibodies,
vaccines, proteins, nucleic acid and cells, etc.; meanwhile, exploratory researches on new types of
expression systems and large scale cultural techniques will also be supported rationally. Funding in
marine drugs mainly supports chemical, pharmaceutical and ecological researches of rare marine
creature and marine microorganism from deep sea. Funding in special drugs and rare disease drugs
supports drug researches involved in aeronautics, astronautics, deep sea, radiations, militaries,
special environments, rare diseases etc. Funding in drug design and drug informatics mainly
supports researches on innovative theories, approaches, software or computational program for
drug design and druggability prediction, and meanwhile, on the discovery and structural
optimization of completely new chemical structures of hit molecules. Funding in pharmaceutics
mainly supports researches on innovative theories, technologies and methods, which are associated
with physical pharmacy, biopharmaceutics, molecular pharmaceutics, industrial pharmaceutics,
novel drug delivery systems and pharmaceutical dosage forms, and which are investigated for
various disease or administration route. Funding in pharmaceutical materials mainly supports basic
researches on establishment and safety evaluation of new pharmaceutical excipients and carriers,
which should have owned prominent features in pharmaceutical functions and structures and can be
distinguished from researches in the area of pharmaceutics. Funding in pharmaceutical analysis
mainly supports basic researches on the establishment and development of innovative approaches
and techniques for analysis of the pharmaceutical molecules, drug targets or biofunctional
molecules, especially, the in vivo effector molecules and the interaction between drug molecules
Funding Scope and Instructions
103
and target molecules or effector molecules to solve key scientific problems in the fields of materia
medica and pharmacology, and supports integrated investigations on the novel techniques for
multi-omics with the important scientific problems of drug targets and biomarkers. As for drug
resources, the Division mainly supports researches on key scientific problems associated with
discovery, exploration, sustainable utilization and protection of new pharmaceutical resources.
Pharmacology (H35)
The field of pharmacology mainly supports researches on target discovery and validation,
drug action mechanism or drug resistance mechanism, target validation, drug metabolism and
pharmacokinetics, clinical pharmacology and drug toxicology, etc. The involved drugs should be
therapeutic drugs or drug candidates or bioactive substances with some advantages in treatment of
diseases.
The discipline of pharmacology puts emphasis on in-depth study of action mechanism of
drugs or bioactive products and their target, including exploring the basic rule of life and the
pathologic mechanism of disease by using drug molecules as probes. In-depth and systematic
studies should be strengthened in proposals related with research fields as below: discovery and
validation of new target, disease-specific and sensitive biomarker, discovery of new
pharmacological actions of drugs or bioactive compounds and elucidation of their action
mechanism, strategies and methods to effectively overcome multi-drug resistance, new targets,
novel drugs and new strategies of drug combination based on pharmacogenomics, epigenetics,
systematic biology, etc. Basic research should be strengthened in proposals as below: molecular
regulatory network of complex disease and mechanism of drug intervention, individualized drug
therapy and new treatment approaches, translational medicine, innovative pharmacological models,
techniques and approaches. In the sub-discipline of drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics, new
approaches and new models should be constructed and developed to strengthen the integrated
researches on the drug target, pharmacodynamics, toxicology, clinical medication and drug
intervention, and the regulation mechanism researches on the drug-metabolizing enzymes and
transporters. In the sub-discipline of clinical pharmacology, the researches should focus on the
exploratory research of individualized medication and the interaction between drugs and human
body, and lay more emphasis on rational administration of special community such as children,
pregnant women and the highest-risk population, etc. In the sub-discipline of drug toxicology,
researches should be strengthened in the research fields as below: molecular mechanism,
intervention strategy to drug toxicity, mechanism on metabolite toxicity, novel models and
approaches for drug safety evaluation.
Innovative fundamental research and continuous in-depth projects will be granted in priority.
Because translational medicine is of far reaching significance in improving clinical application
value of basic research, laboratory basic research on discoveries of new drug, clinical therapeutics
and diagnostics will be strengthened to reveal new targets for drug therapy, new biomarkers for
disease diagnostic in the course of exploring the mechanisms on occurrence and development of
disease, furthermore, to lay theoretical and experimental foundation for developing innovative
drugs and diagnostic reagents with independent intellectual property.
Division IX does not fund conventional researches for drug development for new drug
approval such as pharmaceutical process and general pharmacology. To the innovative basic
research with a great prospect for new drug development, the entire chemical structures or
backbone of compounds should usually be provided in application, but the applicants should
pay special attention to the protection of intellectual property and carefully handle the
relationships between application and secrecy. Confidentially core contents or techniques,
which are not suitable to illustrate or describe in proposals such as chemical structures,
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
104
should be sent directly to Division IX by confidential letters and explained in proposals.
Applicant of young scholar should get the consent of applicant’s supervisor and Letter of
Authorization signed by applicant’s supervisor should be attached with proposal, if research
proposal is similar with or closely related to applicant’s supervisor research work.
Division X of Health Sciences
The Division identifies its role as advancing the theories of Traditional Chinese Medicine
(TCM) including traditional medicine of various ethnic groups (the same below) while highlighting
advantages of TCM. It provides funds to basic science research and clinic research programs in
TCM, Chinese material medica (CMM) and integrated Chinese and western medicine.
Traditional Chinese Medicine (H31)
Funding areas: (1) Fundamental theories of TCM: Zang-Fu organs, Qi-Blood-Body Fluid,
body constitutions, etiology and pathogenesis, basis of TCM syndromes, therapeutic principles and
methods, prescriptions and diagnostics in TCM; (2) basic research in clinical Chinese medicine:
internal medicine, surgery, orthopedics and traumatology, gynecology, pediatrics, ophthalmology,
otorhinolaryngology, stomatology, oncology, geriatrics, and health preservation and rehabilitation
in TCM; (3) acupuncture and moxibustion, Tuina and massage: acupoints and meridians,
acupuncture and moxibustion, Tuina and massage; (4) ethnomedicine of minority; (5) novel
techniques and methods in TCM research.
Chinese Materia Medica (H32)
Funding areas: (1) Chinese material medica: resources, identification, substances in
pharmacodynamics, quality evaluation, processing, pharmaceutics and theories in the properties of
Chinese herbs; (2) pharmacology of TCM: neuropsychopharmacology, cardiovascular and
cerebrovascular pharmacology, anti-tumor pharmacology, endocrinological and metabolic
pharmacology, anti-inflammatory pharmacology, immunopharmacology, antiviral and anti-infective
pharmacology, respiratory pharmacology, digestive pharmacology, urinary and reproductive
pharmacology, metabolism of CMM, pharmacokinetics and toxicology in CMM; (3)
ethnopharmacy of minority; (4) novel techniques and methods in CMM research.
Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine (H33)
Funding areas: (1) fundamental theories of integrative medicine; (2) basic clinical research
of integrative medicine; (3) novel techniques and methods in integrative medicine research.
In recent years, the funded projects in the fields of TCM, CMM, and integrative medicine
have exhibited the following features: (1) based on TCM theories and clinical effects of TCM, and
conducted from both macroscopic and microcosmic levels, the projects explored the holistic rules
of human life and the integrating regulatory effects of TCM; (2) through introducing cutting-edge
theories, methods and techniques exerted in the modern medical science and other fields, incessant
innovation of research thoughts and methods, dynamic integration of TCM and new emerging
disciplines, the projects have particularly been promoting the development of TCM; (3) these
projects also highlighted the priority of clinic-based research of functional disorders, age-associated
diseases, metabolic diseases, immunological disorders, and viral infectious diseases treated by
TCM and the underlying mechanisms.
The Discipline’s top priority is to support the best projects on in-depth exploration of the
Funding Scope and Instructions
105
modern scientific connotation of TCM on the key scientific issues of TCM and under the guidance
of TCM fundamental theories, while emphasizing normative and rational applications of modern
science and technology as well as methods, and thus to promote the inheritance, consistence,
development, and innovation of TCM fundamental theories.
In light of the current TCM research, the Division’s funding priority will continue to support
the following areas in 2021: biological basis of Zang-Fu organ theories (visceral function), animal
models of combining disease and syndrome, regularity in herbal combination of classical formulas,
pharmacodynamic material basis, combination of macrocosmic and microcosmic syndrome
differentiation, mechanisms for therapeutic effects of TCM on preponderant diseases, methodology
in clinical therapeutic evaluation of TCM, specificity of acupoint, regularity in acupoint formulae
and acupuncture manipulation, mechanisms underlying the therapeutic and preventive effects of
acupuncture, Tuina and rehabilitation on diseases, methodology of big data mining based on
ancient documents and modern clinical practices, basic theory, diagnostic and therapeutic regularity,
mechanisms for the effects of integrative medicine in the prevention and treatment of major,
refractory, rare diseases, emerging and infectious diseases, herb-drug interactions, ecological
planting, natural farming, bionic cultivation of CMM, substitute of rare or endangered CMM,
CMM identification principles and methods, methods and mechanisms for quality evaluation of
CMM, regularity and mechanisms of CMM processing and preparation, technical principles of
CMM preparation and novel drug delivery system with overall efficacy, CMM properties, material
basis for effects, physiological disposition and the related regulation, pharmacological effects and
mechanism of CMM, CMM toxicity, toxicology, and the correlation between toxicity and efficacy,
ethnomedicine such as Mongolian medicine, Tibetan medicine, Uyghur Medicine, Dai medicine,
Korean medicine, Zhuang medicine and so on, innovative techniques and methods in TCM and
CMM research.
Division X does not support any proposal which is not associated with TCM. Any
proposal focusing on pure modern medical research should be submitted to other divisions
(H01─H30). Any proposal focusing on natural medicine should be submitted to the
pharmaceutics division (H34) or pharmacology division (H35).
Research on CMM resources should reflect the unique properties of CMM, such as the
related characteristics of the yield and quality in the production process of CMM, protection
of CMM resources, development and production of new CMM resources. The Division will
not support research which focus on non-medicinal plants, non-medicinal animals and
non-medicinal minerals. The studies of active substances and pharmacology of CMM should
explain the correlation with its clinical efficacy or the values to the development of CMM.
Pharmaceutics research of minority should explain the relevance of ethnomedicine theory or
traditional medicine administration principles. Any proposal without natural science feature
will not be supported. TCM or acupoint formulas should list the components in the proposal.
For those which cannot be shown openly should be sent to the Division directly by
confidential mails and specifically explained in the proposal. All proposals which do not meet
the above requirements will not be funded.