Department of Management Sciences
The Department mainly supports research on improving the understanding of objective law
in management and economic activities. The research findings can provide theory and method to
optimize the utilization of limited resources. The Department consists of three divisions, handling
and reviewing proposals of four disciplines, which are Management Science and Engineering,
Business Administration, Economic Sciences, and Macro-Management and Policy.
During the 14th Five-Year Plan, the Department will be more active to encourage original
studies, give preference to proposals discovering and exploring universal scientific issues based on
Chinese management practices, and promote research on issues of management science to meet
major national needs, so as to broaden the knowledge of management science and improve the
ability of service management practice.
The Department emphasizes applying “scientific methods” to explore the objective laws of
management and economic activities, and therefore ordinary management research will not be
supported. The Department supports experimental research that observes and discovers the new
management phenomena based on data obtained from experiments, observations and measurements.
The Department also supports theoretical research that aims at addressing management issues by
analyzing and explaining management phenomena through modeling, computation, induction and
deduction. The Department will offer higher funding support than the average funding level for
experimental research projects that do need long-term and large-scale data collection, data
processing and field investigation, and high performance computing and experiments.
The Department encourages and supports scientists from diverse academic background to
take an active part in management science research and explore the laws, theories and approaches
of management science. However, applications focusing on humanities and social science, as well
as those within the funding scope of other scientific departments of NSFC, will not be accepted by
the Department.
In 2021, the Department adjusted the application codes of the four disciplines in accordance
with the arrangement of NSFC, so that each discipline has clearer research focus and orientation.
Applicants are required to select appropriate application code before submitting proposals.
General requirements for applications in 2021 are as follows:
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
78
1. No repetitive funding with the National Social Science Fund
To optimize the allocation of the National Natural Science Fund and to ensure that the
project leaders invest adequate time and energy in their on-going national projects, the Department
will decline proposals by the following applicants in 2021 (except for the applications of National
Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars):
Applicants who were supported by the National Social Science Fund as a project leader
within the past 5 years (from January 1, 2016), and have not yet obtained the project completion
certificate awarded by the National Planning Office of Philosophy and Social Science until the
deadline of this year’s fund application.
Note: if an applicant has gained the project completion certificate from the National
Planning Office of Philosophy and Social Science, and is applying for an NSFC project with the
application code starting with G in 2021, the applicant needs to submit a scanned electronic version
of the certificate with an official signature and seal of his/her home institution online.
If the applicant has submitted the project completion certificate for the NSFC in the
previous year, he/she will be not requested to submit again in this year.
(2) Applicants who apply for National Social Science Fund as a project leader in the year of
2021.
2. Accuracy and integrality information
Applicants are responsible for the accuracy, integrality, and reliability of the contents of
their applications, and their home institutions are obligated to undertake serious check on the
relevant information. The following requirements should be complied with when applicants prepare
and submit the project proposals:
(1) Applicants are required to give a detailed description on their previous research work
related to the project proposals, as well as the publications in previous work. The five
representative works should be journal articles or monographs that have already been published
(including published online). When filling out the information of the representative works, the
applicant should carefully read the requirements for filling in the representative works of
application template, and must comply with it with honesty.
(2) The Department treats it unacceptable that applicants submit the same proposals to more
than one science funding agency (or department). Applicants who propose new research topics
based on their previous NSFC projects are required to describe the progress of the previous NSFC
project and clarify the relations and differences between the newly submitted proposals and the
previous ones. For applicants who are undertaking projects funded by other agencies, such as
Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, National Social Science Fund or local
science funding organizations, they are required to clarify the similarities and differences between
their on-going projects and the new proposals submitted to NSFC.
3. Special requirements for project leaders starting NSFC projects in recent years
To ensure that project leaders invest adequate time and energy in their on-going projects, the
applicants in 2021 who has been approved any kind of NSFC projects as a project leader in recent
two years, 2019 or 2020, will be reviewed and assessed through stricter procedures. The project
leader approved in 2020 will be more attentions.
4. Consideration of the performance of accomplished projects
The Department conducts performance evaluation for all General Program projects, Young
Scientists Fund projects, and Fund for Less Developed Regions projects one year after completion
of these projects. The evaluation results will be released to the public on the NSFC website.
Researchers with excellent performance evaluation results will be given priority for funding when
they apply for new projects. However, researchers with poor performance evaluation results will
undergo stricter review procedures when they apply for new projects.
Funding Scope and Instructions
79
The above requirements apply to all projects in the Department.
Funding in Department of Management Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Developed Regions
Projects Direct cost
Success
rate (%)
Projects Direct cost
Success rate
(%)
Projects Direct cost
Success
rate (%)
I
Management
science and
engineering
221 10,620 17.78 225 5,392 17.46 31 868 15.50
II Business
administration 194 9,324 16.33 235 5,632 15.64 33 924 14.86
III
Economic sciences 151 7,259 13.84 216 5,176 13.73 37 1,036 13.36
Macro-
management and
policy
240 11,581 13.99 245 5,824 13.52 44 1,232 13.37
Total or average 806 38,784 15.39 921 22,024 14.91 145 4,060 14.11
Direct cost per project 48.12 — 28.00
Division I of Management Sciences
Management Science and Engineering (G01)
The Division mainly supports research on management theories and methods in the field of
management sciences, which includes complex system management, operations management,
decision-making and game, forecast and evaluation, management statistics theory and method,
management psychology and behaviors, management system engineering, industrial engineering
and quality management, logistics and supply chain management, service science and engineering,
data science and management, information system and management, risk management, financial
engineering, engineering management and project management, transportation management, digital
platform management theory, smart management and artificial intelligence, and management
theories and methods driven by new technology, etc.
The orientation of this Division is more focused on basic theories, emphasizing innovative
research on management theory and method integrated with China’s management practices. The
Division encourages interdisciplinary research and international frontier research.
For the past few years, the Discipline has experienced rapid development in China. Its
performance and reputation in the international scientific society has been unceasingly raised up in
many research areas. However, the number of application and funded applications varied
significantly across different research areas. The application amount of operations management,
logistics and supply chain management, information system and management, transportation
management, and financial engineering was relatively large, while the number of applications in
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
80
the field of basic theory and method on management sciences was relatively small, including the
management statistics theory and method, etc.
In 2021, the Division will continue to encourage and support original research on basic
theories on management sciences, frontier approach and innovative studies that are based on
China’s management practices, pioneering research to explore the frontiers of management
sciences and innovative research findings with international influence. Meanwhile, the Division
will give priority to the proposals that combine theoretical research and practical issues to solve the
scientific issues generated from management practices in China and derive management theory and
methods with universality. In this division, researchers are strongly encouraged to do frontier
research and solve the problems related with important national demand, especially for the issues of
management sciences behind the technical problems of “neck-lock”. The Division also encourages
integrations of management sciences with mathematics, economic sciences, behavior sciences,
information sciences, as well as other disciplines, and supports studies of seeking breakthroughs of
theories, methods, and practices through multi-interdisciplinary.
Division II of Management Sciences
Business Administration (G02)
The Division mainly supports basic research on management theories and new management
techniques and methodologies, taking micro-level organizations (all types of industries, enterprises,
institutions and nonprofit organizations) as the research objects. The funding areas of the Division
include strategic management, theory of the firm, enterprise technology and innovation
management, human resource management, financial management, accounting and auditing,
marketing, organizational behavior, business intelligence and digital commerce, corporate finance,
enterprise operations management, corporate governance, entrepreneurship, international business
management, tourism management.
For the past few years, the Discipline has experienced development in various fields. The
number of applications in the fields of financial management, marketing, operations management,
accounting and auditing, enterprise technology and innovation management, organization theory
and organizational behavior was relatively large, and correspondingly, the number of funded
projects in these fields was also larger than the one in other fields. On the other hand, the number of
applications in the fields of project management, international business management, and
e-commerce was much smaller, and the number of funded projects in these fields was relatively
small. In general, the proposals of basic research on expanding the frontier theories of business
administration, and exploring new methods and new technologies has shown certain innovativeness,
and the number of applied basic research focusing on national strategic demands and industry’s
practical issues was steadily increasing.
In 2021, the Division will continue to support research on innovative and cutting-edge
scientific issues, highlight theory innovation and new knowledge discovery and creation. The
Division will give priority to frontier exploratory proposals that integrate scientific methods and
mutually verified data from various sources, and value researches with substantial international
cooperation. The Division advocates scientific spirits, encourage exploration, and give priority to
support innovative research on management theory innovation and research paradigm changes that
are based on the practices of Chinese enterprises.
In order to promote the balance within the discipline, the Division will continue to support
basic research focusing on frontiers in areas of strategic management, theory of the firm,
Funding Scope and Instructions
81
organizational behavior, enterprise technology and innovation management, human resource
management, financial management, accounting and auditing, marketing, business intelligence and
digital commerce, and enterprise operations management. Preference will be given to three newly
added areas of corporate finance, corporate governance, and tourism management, as well as areas
with fewer applications, including international business management and entrepreneurial
management.
Division III of Management Sciences
The Division supports two basic research areas: economic sciences and macro-management
and policy.
Economic Sciences (G03)
The Discipline mainly supports the basic research on unveiling the laws of economic
activities, explaining economic phenomena, and deriving economic theories through scientific
research methods. The funding areas covers econometrics and economic statistics, behavior
economics and experimental economics, mathematical economics and computational economics,
microeconomics, macroeconomic management, international economics and trade, financial
economics, finance and public economics, industrial economics, economic development and
economic systems, agricultural and forestry economics and management, regional economics,
population labor and health economics, resources and environmental economics, etc.
In recent years, in the disciplines of economic sciences, there have been a large number of
applications and funded projects in the fields of agriculture and forestry economics and
management, economic development and trade, financial management, population, resources,
environment economics and labor economics, regional economics and industrial economics. On the
contrary, applications and supports in some fields are much less, including behavioral economics
and experimental economics, econometrics and economic computation, etc. It implies the
significant differences in research teams and scales for different fields.
In 2021, the Discipline will pay more attention to those research proposals on the topics of
macroeconomic theories that are based on China’s national conditions, theories and methods of
econometrics and experimental economics, modern fiscal and financial systems, income
distribution mechanisms, industrial transformation and upgrading, collaborative development of
regions, and so on. In addition, it will encourage and give priority to the proposals focusing on the
high-quality development of China, which includes dual circulation economy system and economic
structural adjustment under the background of global change, the construction of a global economic
governance system, productivity and innovative technology development, population and labor
force, resource and environment, income distribution, etc.
Macro-Management and Policy (G04)
The Discipline is a group of disciplines that study the behaviors of governments and related
public sectors in formulating macro policies and implementing comprehensive governance policies,
in order to achieve social and economic development goals. It covers research on public
administration and public policy, policy science theory and methods, science and technology
management and policy, innovation management and policy, public health management and policy,
pharmaceutical management and policy, public security and emergency management, social
governance and social security, environment and ecology management, resource management and
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
82
policy, regional development and urban governance, digital governance and information resource
management, global governance, and sustainable development, etc.
In recent years, there are much more applications and supports for the areas of health
management and policy, medical management and policy, resource management and policy,
environment and ecology management, regional development and urban governance, public
security and emergency management, innovation management and policy, etc. Among them, the
number of applications on health management and policy, medical management and policy has
grown so rapid that they account for 36.44% of all applications in the discipline in 2020. In
addition, applications on innovation management and policy, public security and emergency
management also grow fast. On the contrary, there are much less applications and supports in the
fields of public administration and public policy, policy science theories and methods, cultural
management, and social security.
In 2021, the Discipline will pay more attention to research proposals that focus on topics of
socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era, including China’s governance, public policy,
social governance, public security and emergency management, health management and policy,
innovation management, education management, and environment and ecology management.
The Discipline aims to facilitate discipline development, promote academic innovation, and
support talented scientists and research teams. In particular, the Division encourages researchers to
provide scientific support and evidences for macro policy makers while developing theories and
methods. The applications should take China’s practical management issues as the main research
objects, and bring up scientific issues from the research objects accurately. The scientificity and
normativeness of research methods should be paid special attention. Applicants are advised to
differentiate management science research and practical management work. In addition, the
applicants should also pay attention to the difference between an NSFC project and a humanity and
social science project in terms of research methods. Several other requirements are listed as follows:
the scope of the research topic should be appropriate; the research goal should be concentrated and
clear; the research content should be specific and concrete; the research methods and technology
roadmap, as well as how to address the key scientific issues, need to be clearly clarified in the
application.