Department of Interdisciplinary Sciences
The Department was established in November 2020 by the NSFC. Its primary mission is to
coordinate the funding work in the interdisciplinary field, initiate development strategies and
funding policies, provide primary funding directions and project guidelines, accept, evaluate, and
manage scientific projects including international cooperation and research, construct a
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
106
merit-review system, and provide consultations on cross-disciplinary issues.
Guided by major questions in basic research, the Department supports scientific activities in
the interdisciplinary field and establishes an integrated funding mechanism to promote
multidisciplinary research on complex science and technology issues that meet national needs. The
goal is to advance the formation of new disciplines, accelerate technological breakthroughs,
establish an interdisciplinary research method, cultivate world-class, multidisciplinary talents, and
creates an interdisciplinary scientific culture.
The Department is divided into four divisions that fund and support interdisciplinary
scientific research in the following fields: Physical Science, Intelligence Sciences, Life & Health
Sciences, and Convergence Sciences.
Division I of Interdisciplinary Sciences
The Division supports research in the field of material sciences. It was established based on
the interdisciplinary study across mathematics, physics, chemistry, life science, and other basic
science. The Division funds projects aiming to solve the fundamental problems in materials, energy,
environment, and information, make significant scientific breakthroughs, or form new
interdisciplinary disciplines.
Division II of Interdisciplinary Sciences
The Division supports research in the field of intelligence and intelligent manufacturing. To
facilitate the transformation of the national economy in China, the Division was established based
on the interdisciplinary study across big data, artificial intelligence, cyberspace, information
technology, etc. It aims to tackle the critical science and technology issues in control engineering
and precision/advanced intelligent manufacturing relating to complex systems and solve bottleneck
problems in engineering and manufacturing.
Division III of Interdisciplinary Sciences
The Division supports research in the field of life science and health. To advance the
national health and welfare, the Division was established based on interdisciplinary research in
science, engineering, medicine, etc. It aims to reveal the scientific principles behind life phenomena,
clarify the multi-level interaction mechanism of complex systems related to life and health, and
respond to the major challenges in human health and disease control and prevention.
Division IV of Interdisciplinary Sciences
The Division supports the research in the field of integrated sciences. It is orientated to
explore issues in the macro-complex systems and economic development such as exploration and
utilization of resources, construction of the ecological civilization, and improvement of human
Funding Scope and Instructions
107
settlement. The Division was established based on interdisciplinary scientific research across
natural science, humanities, society, management, etc. It studies the natural laws and scientific
causes behind the evolution of human civilization, the feedback mechanism between nature and
society, the dynamic structure of the man-land system, and other major scientific issues in
connection with matters relating to the sustainable development of humankind.