Department of Life Sciences
Life science is one of the most active frontier fields of modern science to explore life
phenomena and their basic laws. As a guarantee of national population health, food security, food
safety and ecological civilization, life science is an important support for technological progress
and industrial development. Life science research is closely related to national economic and social
development, and plays pivotal dual roles in promoting scientific exploration and supporting of
national strategic needs.
The Department has been encouraging researchers to carry out original study with
innovative academic ideas, as well as novel technology and approaches, particularly for those
playing a pivotal role of promoting the development of related disciplines with authentic ideas.
Emphasis will be put on proposals with novel theories, firm hypotheses and the interdisciplinary
importance based on previous research over a long period of time. The Department will pay
attention to important frontiers and new emerging fields in life sciences in the future, while keeping
a balanced and harmonious development among various disciplines. In line with the principles of
“encouraging exploration, highlighting originality; focusing on the frontier, creating novelty;
demand promoted, breaking through bottlenecks; common orientation, cross-disciplines”, scientists
are encouraged to aim at basic scientific issues both in the frontier of science and the major national
needs. The Department implements the funding policy depending on the performance of previous
funded project, and gives preferential consideration to applicants with good performance in their
previous projects under equivalent conditions.
Due to the frequent occurrence of infectious diseases and zoonosis caused by various
pathogenic microorganisms in recent years, which has caused great harm to social and economic
development and people’s health, it is particularly urgent to strengthen basic research in related
fields. Although the Department has funded many fields closely related to the origin, evolution,
transmission, genetic variation, infection and vaccine research and development of viruses and
other pathogenic microorganisms, there is still a lack of knowledge about viruses and new
pathogenic microorganisms. Therefore the related research needs to be emphasized and deepened.
In the future, the Department will actively encourage scientific researchers to carry out systematic
research in fields related to virology, pathogenic microbiology, immunology, and will also pay
close attention and provide stable support to the above encouraged research fields in the funding
process.
Since 2021, the application codes of all disciplines in the Department have been set as a
two-level structure with only the first level application code and the second level application code.
Numeral research directions have been set under the second level application code. Applicants
should pay attention to the research direction under the second level application code.
Attention:
(1) In the explanation part of the Guide of the Department, as well as of all the disciplines,
the funding scope is emphasized and the categories that will not be accepted have been clearly
noted. Therefore applicants should read carefully according to their subject of application.
(2) Concerning applications related to operation with highly pathogenic microbe, applicants
should abide by national regulations concerned, and perform under bio-safety qualified conditions.
(3) Projects involving animal experiments shall comply with relevant national regulations
and requirements of animal ethics and welfare.
(4) The application code should be specified to the final level. Applications fail to provide
the detailed code will be declined. Please refer to the discipline guides for specific requirements on
application codes.
In addition, the Department has made the following requirements for ethics-related research
applications in biomedical research:
(1) To carry out research in the field of biomedicine, researchers must abide by the relevant
provisions of the state, respect internationally recognized bioethical norms, and abide by the
relevant requirements of the state for ethical research.
(2) Biomedical research involving human beings must provide the review opinions of ethics
committees of the supporting units or their superior departments in the application form.
(3) Applications involving multi-unit participation in ethical research should be supported
by certification documents examined and approved by each participating unit or the ethics
committee of the competent department at a higher level.
(4) When overseas institutions or individuals cooperate with domestic medical and health
institutions to carry out research and declaration fund projects involving ethics, they shall issue
certification documents for examination and approval by ethics committees provided by domestic
relying units.
(5) For research projects that need to sign informed consent, the process and procedure of
signing informed consent should be described in the application form.
(6) If the ethics-related fund project is approved and the research plan is changed during the
implementation period, the review opinion certificate of the ethics committee after the change of
the research plan shall be submitted to the fund committee again in accordance with the above
requirements.
Applicants should follow the requirement of the Guide and the application syllabus when
writing their proposals. Otherwise, the proposals will not be accepted.
Funding in Department of Life Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less
Developed Regions
Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%)
Biology I
Microbiology 189 10,960 21.36 140 3,344 18.82 42 1,465 17.21
Botany 211 12,238 24.62 146 3,504 18.81 67 2,347 17.14
Zoology 143 8,294 25.54 75 1,800 17.08 25 876 17.12
Biology II
Genetics and
bioinformatics 147 8,526 25.70 118 2,792 19.87 20 690 17.39
Cell biology 109 6,322 26.85 79 1,856 18.24 14 492 17.07
Developmental
biology and
reproductive
biology
75 4,350 27.47 52 1,208 19.77 8 296 16.33
Biomedicine
Immunology 80 4,640 27.03 60 1,416 22.56 7 252 16.67
Neurosciences
and
Psychology
146 8,468 20.28 124 2,960 15.90 16 570 16.84
Physiology &
integrative
biology
86 4,988 25.44 48 1,128 18.60 9 330 16.36
Interdisci-
plinary
research
Biophysics/Bio
chemistry 116 6,720 27.29 80 1,864 21.16 11 396 16.67
Biomaterials
/Imaging/tissue
engineering
106 6,148 20.11 99 2,336 16.92 10 336 17.86
Molecular
biology/Biotec
hnology
73 4,234 23.86 63 1,504 16.71 5 174 17.24
Environment
and ecology
Ecology 190 11,020 20.77 161 3,856 19.83 84 2,942 17.14
Forestry and
grassland
science
217 12,586 16.93 163 3,912 14.25 91 3,188 17.14
Agriculture
and food
science
Agriculture
and crop
sciences
243 14,094 15.49 205 4,888 13.70 103 3,602 17.17
Food science 225 13,050 14.06 227 5,432 13.07 74 2,599 17.09
Agricultural
environment
and
horticulture
Plant
protection 153 8,874 17.75 138 3,296 17.23 58 2,023 17.21
Horticulture
and plant
nutrition
174 10,092 17.33 161 3,840 14.74 84 2,954 17.07
Agriculture
animal
Animal
husbandry 117 6,786 15.85 100 2,400 14.73 51 1,801 17.00
Veterinary
medicine 144 8,352 17.54 119 2,840 18.71 43 1,489 17.34
Aquaculture 85 4,930 15.54 88 2,104 15.25 13 438 17.81
Total or average 3,029 175,672 19.54 2,446 58,280 16.45 835 29,260 17.13
Direct cost per project 58.00 — 35.04
Division I of Biology
The funding scope of the Division covers three disciplines, namely microbiology, botany
and zoology.
Microbiology (C01)
The characteristics of basic research supported by the Discipline are focusing on the cutting
edge fields as well as with national demand basis. There is an obvious lack of balanced
development of different branches in microbiology, observed based on previous years of grant
application and funding situation. The number of proposals aiming at study on mycoplasma,
rickettsia, chlamydia, spiroplasma, phage, prion, etc., is relatively small, which indicates that the
related research team needs to be augmented and intensified. The Discipline encourages researchers
to carry out fundamental and authentic studies on resources, diversity as well as biological
relevance in the fields listed above.
This discipline encourages microbiologists to carry out in-depth and systematic research
around virology and pathogenic microbiology, and strive to promote the cutting-edge theory and
technology of virology and virus immune system interaction research. The Division encourages the
use of modern technologies such as microbiome and big data in combination with traditional
methods to carry out microbial classification research, reveal the systematic evolution and
evolution rules of microbial groups with important classification status or application potential, and
further strengthen the cultivation of taxonomic talents. The Division encourages microbiologists to
cooperate with researchers in the fields of mathematics, physics, chemistry and informatics.
Moreover, the following research fields are especially encouraged: single cell, CO infection,
microbiomics and epigenetics of microorganisms; enrichment and isolation of difficult to cultivate
microorganisms; basic scientific research on pathogenic microorganisms and marine
microorganisms; frontier research on the major environmental problems in China. Moreover, the
usage of microorganisms as model materials to carry out systematic and in-depth research on the
basic and frontier scientific issues of life science are encouraged.
In order to promote the development of novel theories, new technologies and methodology
of microbiology, gather academic ideas, research methods and technical means in various fields,
break through the barriers of traditional disciplines, as well as solve complex scientific problems,
applicants are encouraged to carry on collaboration with ones with mathematics, physics, chemistry,
electronics, information, engineering and other backgrounds to devote to the basic research of
microbiology.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. The 9
secondary application codes are remained with content adjustment, and each secondary
application code has multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Botany (C02)
With plants as the research object, the Discipline has always aimed to focus on the world’s
leading edge, based on the national needs, and subsidizes basic research projects. Research interests
include plant taxonomy, plant phylogeny and evolution, plant photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation,
transportation and metabolism of water and nutrients, interaction between plant and environment,
plant hormones and growth regulators, plant reproduction and development, protection and
utilization of plant resources, phytochemistry and secondary metabolism, new technologies and
methods of botany research, etc.
It can be seen from the applications accepted and funded in recent years that the
development of each branching field within the Discipline is unbalanced. There are relatively more
applications in areas such as plant phylogeny, plant hormone, growth and development, and
Funding Scope and Instructions
35
resistance physiology, and therefore the research quality is relatively high. On the other hand, there
are fewer applications in the fields such as paleobotany, biological nitrogen fixation, mineral
elements and the metabolism, organic synthesize and transportation, hydrophytes and ocean plant
and resources, etc. Applications that have research basis in the above-mentioned subjects will be
encouraged. Systematic and creative research combined with structural biology, system biology and
computational biology should be further strengthened henceforth.
The Discipline will pay close attention to natural variation and domestication mechanism of
plants, environmental adaptation mechanism of plants, simulation of plant life processes and
functions. Applicants are also encouraged to carry out their studies in the fields of phytosystematics,
introduction and plant germplasm conservation, plant cell totipotency, molecular basis of plant
important traits, interaction between plants and other organisms, and plant response to
environmental changes.
The Discipline will continue to give preferential support to plant taxonomy in 2021,
especially to strengthen the support to young taxonomists. The discipline encourages applicants to
carry out research on species revision of certain families and genus on the world wide range and
plant resources research in key areas and special environment. Application of novel technology to
plant taxonomy is encouraged.
The interdisciplinary studies of botany with other related fields will be strongly encouraged,
especially with mathematics, physics, chemistry, geosciences, information science and technology
as well as social sciences. Development of new model plants with important evolutionary positions
is encouraged in order to explore special biological phenomena. In order to achieve better use of
local advantages, resources advantages, and talent training, the discipline will encourage
collaborations among applicants with institutions or groups having unique special advantages.
Special notice for applicants:
(1) Projects accepted under the plant-enticement interaction code (C0205) do not
include applications for research related to crops and other cash crops.
(2) Under the application code for Phytochemistry (C0209), it is encouraged to conduct
in-depth exploration and functional research on important chemical components in plants,
but applications with pharmacological research and structural modification or synthesis
research will not be accepted.
(3) In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated.
There are 10 secondary application codes instead of 7, and each secondary application code
has multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Zoology (C04)
Zoology studies the life phenomena and principles in animal morphology, taxonomy,
physiology, behavior, ecology, evolution and genetics. The effective application of theory and
techniques has greatly enriched the research contents of zoology. On this basis, the research of
animal resources and protection, wild animal diseases and control, marine animal diversity,
development and application of experimental animal models reflect the national needs. With the
deepening and integration of various directions of zoology, the interdisciplinary and compatible
development characteristics of zoology have been formed.
In the future, the identification and description of unknown species of animals, and revised
study of known species of animals will remain the key funding areas by the branching field of
taxonomy. Taxonomy of ocean animals should also be highly valued. Key research areas currently
focus on the animal phylogeny and zoogeography, as well as the life history around the evolution.
The discipline will encourage researches on animal physiology, animal behavior, and the
establishment of model animals, etc. Support will be strengthened for researches on conservation
biology for endangered animals, the sustainable utilization of important resource animals, and
related biological researches for important alien invasive species and bio-safety. Basic research of
zoology for specific species in China and fragility of western and remote areas will be continually
encouraged. The Division attaches great importance to the study of experimental animals and
animal models, but do not accept the application of clinical medical diagnosis and treatment based
on model animals. In addition, the discipline will pay more attention to basic research on zoology;
encourage original studies and exploration based on animal resources and regional features in
China and the application of new theory and technologies, encourage interdisciplinary research
such as animal behavior and neurobiology.
Applications accepted by the discipline in recent years have demonstrated that researches in
some subjects have already formed their own features and acquired significant international impact.
It can be also observed that not only the formulation of scientific problems as well as rationality of
designs, but also the creativeness of academic thoughts of the proposals are greatly improved.
However some problems still exist, for example, the excessive pursuit of hotspots without solid
research basis, and the lack of justification for proposed research and feasibility of technical routes;
the inaccurate orientation of the four scientific classification properties; insufficient experimental
accumulation was provided by some of applications, or the description of detailed research
progress and contents; some proposals were lack of scientific problem or hypothesis with explicit
definition, or overstating research objectives; the budget for research is impractical in some
proposals and repetitive application still exist on a small scale.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 8 secondary application codes instead of 11, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Special notice for applicants: This discipline does not accept the application of medical
research only using model animals as research materials, the application of applied research
using livestock and poultry as research materials, and the application of agricultural pest
related research.
Division II of Biology
The funding scope of the Division covers the following three disciplines: genetics and
bioinformatics; cell biology; and developmental biology and reproductive biology.
Genetics and Bioinformatics (C06)
Genetics is to study the inheritance and variation of organisms on various levels of
molecules, cells, individuals and populations. Bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field of biology
and computing science, aiming at the exploration and improvement of methods and means to obtain,
store, manage and analyze biological data. The discipline of genetics and bioinformatics
encourages the combination of bioinformatics analysis and experimental verification, and
encourages trans-disciplinary applying new theories, methodologies and technologies. Moreover,
research on the genetic basis of human phenotypes, behaviors and diseases will be specially
favored.
The genetics discipline will give priority support on the following fields: the study of
genomic variation and evolution law of complex biological characteristics; study on the genetic and
epigenetic basis of human diseases; studies on basic genetic laws and the molecular mechanisms of
gene expression and regulation by using model organisms; the establishment of genetic operating
system, new methods and technologies of phenomics and genetic breeding; basic researches on the
Funding Scope and Instructions
37
genetic law of typical resources, major agriculture crops, microbe, etc.; and the molecular basis of
genetics and variation of organisms under extreme or special environment; novel genetic fields
such as genetic editing, chemical genetics, photo-genetics, phenotype-nomics, 3D/4D genomics,
algorisms and methodology in biological big data, etc.
As for bioinfomatics, future funding directions and key areas will be focused on the
following fields: developing new theories, algorithms and analytical techniques of bioinformatics
and computational biology; genomics and epigenomics, transcriptome and epigenomics, phenomics;
integrating genomics data and system biology analysis; research on methods of integration,
standardization and visualization of large biological data; machine learning and in-depth learning
of biological data; virtual reality display of biological data; design and synthesis of molecular
modules and networks and research on biological networks, etc.
In 2020, the numbers of applications received in areas of population genetics, animal
genetics, network model of biological system and simulation and construction of biological loop
were relatively small. Whereas those fields are pivotal concepts in classical genetics or
bioinfomation research, the discipline will prioritize proposals with solid previous studies and
novel scientific questions in the above branches. In 2021, the discipline continues to encourage
original studies on combination of bioinformatics analysis and bio-experimental verification. The
Division will continue to support projects to further explore the basic mechanisms and laws of
genetics and epigenetics, methodology research on multi-level data integration and analysis of the
formation mechanism of complex traits, and research on efficient and high-performance
computational genetics methods for genomic big data analysis.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 8, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Cell Biology (C07)
Cell biology is a fundamental and cutting-edge subject to study the principles and
mechanisms of cell life activities, mainly aiming at revealing the structure, function, phenotypes
and regulation mechanism at molecular, cellular and individual levels within organisms, as well as
studies on cytological mechanisms of phenotype and functional abnormal occurrence of organisms.
Studies on the structure and function of cell and subcellular machinery have been the major
aspects supported by the discipline. Applicants are encouraged to carry out integrated studies on the
mechanisms of synthesis, modification, degradation, localization, and translocation of protein with
the aggregation, dissociation, location of its components, and the activity diversification with time
and space of protein complex during the process of cell signal transduction with dynamic change
mechanisms of life activities of cells. Highlight will be given to endeavors on solving important
problems in basic cell biology upon using cell models or model systems, in combination with
techniques and methods of genetics, developmental biology, chemical biology, and cell imaging
technologies, etc.
Among the applications accepted in 2020, there were fewer applications in areas of cell
movement, intercellular interaction, and single cell study. Whereas the above areas are pivotal in
cell biology and have foundations in related researches in China, the discipline will prioritize
funding to applicants who present their proposals with scientific issues from their solid research
background on these aspects. In 2021, the discipline will continue to emphasize on functional and
mechanism issues, highlighting the utilization of various novel research technologies and
methodologies in cell biology. The discipline will actively promote the development of techniques
in cell in situ and real time, dynamic and high-resolution analysis, and highly value integrated
researches from molecular to cellular and individual levels, so as to reveal different molecular
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
38
mechanisms closely linked with cell function and biological effect and regulation network.
In 2020, some applicants did not pay enough attention to medical ethics issues, and
submitted projects without ethical review for the research involving human subjects, which should
be paid special attention to.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 19, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Developmental Biology and Reproductive Biology (C12)
Developmental biology and reproductive biology is a science that studies the basic
biological laws in the process of formation, development, growth and aging of multicellular
individuals.
This Discipline focuses on the basic laws of gametogenesis, fertilization, embryonic
development, organogenesis, homeostasis, aging, damage repair and regeneration, identification,
establishment, reprogramming, pluripotent stem cell induction and other important biological
processes of human, animal and plant.
Modern developmental biology and reproductive biology emphasize on the continuity of
development and dynamic process of change, emphasize the collaborative function of multi-cells
and multi-genes, value the relationship of development and diseases, and encourage the exploration
of molecular regulating mechanisms of development and reproduction by using model organisms.
Applications will be encouraged on the creative development of research methods and systems, as
well as the establishment of model diseases concerning development and reproduction, so as to
provide basis for clinical transformation.
In 2020, the number of project applications for this discipline increased steadily. The
number of project applications in the fields of early embryonic development, tissue and organ
development and regeneration, stem cells, early germ cells, and reproductive abnormalities and
infertility has been keeping at relatively high level. Some projects were able to aim at the forefront
of science with accurate topics and high starting point. The research in the field of reproductive
biology was generally closely combined with the important scientific issues in the field of human
reproduction, with scientific questions covering both basic and practical considerations.
In 2020, some applicants did not pay enough attention to medical ethics issues, and
submitted projects without ethical review for the research involving human subjects, which should
be paid special attention to.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 8 secondary application codes instead of 5, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Division of Biomedicine
The Division covers the following three disciplines: immunology, neurosciences
&psychology, and physiology & integrative biology.
Immunology (C08)
Immunology studies the structure and function of immune system. It has been a frontier and
leading discipline, bridging biology to clinical medicine.
This Discipline mainly supports the following fields: development and aging of innate
Funding Scope and Instructions
39
immunity and adaptive immune system; activation, differentiation, migration, tissue distribution
and functional regulation of immune cells and their subsets; structure, function and effect
mechanism of immune molecules; genetic basis and epigenetic regulation of immune response and
related diseases; cellular and molecular mechanism of immune tolerance and autoimmunity;
molecular and cellular mechanism of mucosal immunity and local immune characteristics and
regulation mechanism of tissues and organs; neuroendocrine immune network, metabolism and
immune regulation; mechanism of primary and acquired immunodeficiency; occurrence,
development, regression and intervention of infectious and non-infectious inflammation; regulation
and intervention of reproductive immunity; mechanism and tolerance of transplantation immune
rejection strategy; vaccine, antibody and immune intervention.
It is clearly demonstrated from the applications in 2020 that the number of projects applied
to this discipline has increased steadily, and the number of projects applied in vaccine, adjuvant and
delivery system and neuroimmunology has increased significantly compared with that in 2019. The
number of projects in the fields of immune system development and aging, immune genetics,
epigenetic regulation, and reproductive immunity kept roughly the same as that in 2019, which was
relatively small. On the other hand, the proportion of funding for virus immunization and vaccine
related fields has been appropriately increased in 2020. It is worth noting that some of the projects
applied in 2020 have inaccurate understanding of the classification of scientific problems,
especially the “encouraging exploration and highlighting originality” category. In total the
discipline accepted 294 general projects, of which 39 (13.3%) in the “encourage exploration,
highlight originality” category, but most of the projects were not funded due to lacking of
originality.
In 2021, the discipline will support applications with creative academic thoughts; encourage
applicants to concentrate scientific problems from their former research and practice to carry out
in-depth exploration of mechanisms targeting at specific scientific target; encourage the
establishment of typical research system and techniques platform, and highlight the setting-up and
application of various novel methods and techniques in immunological studies; encourage study in
areas of systems immunology, immunomics and computational immunology; encourage basic
research relating to the structure of immune system and abnormal function, and the close
cooperation of scientists working in basic and clinic studies.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 8 secondary application codes instead of 14, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Neuroscience and Psychology (C09)
The funding scope of this discipline includes neuroscience, psychology and cognitive
science. The key scientific question of neuroscience research is to analyze the essence of human
nervous activity, from primary sensation and instinctive behavior to advanced language, learning,
memory, attention, consciousness, thinking and decision-making, etc. Psychology is the science of
studying human psychology and behavior, aiming at clarifying law and mechanism of occurrence,
development, expression and function of psychological phenomena such as personality, cognition,
emotion, motivation, thinking, consciousness, and decision-making. Cognitive science is a science
that studies the nature and law of cognition and intelligence including cognitive and intellectual
activities at all levels and aspects including perception, attention, memory, reasoning, choice,
consciousness and even emotional motivation.
The number of applications in 2020 clearly indicated that the development of neuroscience
and psychology was imbalanced. A large number of the proposals submitted and projects funded
are focused on molecular and cellular neurobiology, behavior and emotional neurobiology,
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
40
structure and function of nervous system, cognitive psychology, developmental and educational
psychology, whereas there are fewer applications in fields of novel technology and paradigm of
cognitive simulation, computing and artificial intelligence, neuroscience and psychology.
In 2020, some applicants did not pay enough attention to medical ethics issues, and
submitted projects without ethical review for the research involving human subjects, which should
be paid special attention to. Besides, it is also worth noting that some of the projects applied in
2020 have inaccurate understanding of the classification of scientific problems, especially the
“encouraging exploration and highlighting originality” category.
In 2021, the discipline will continue to encourage the exploration of the neurobiological
basis of cognition and behavior, through analysis at different scales, such as micro, mesoscopic and
macro scales. Interdisciplinary studies will be encouraged to clarify the occurrence, development
and mechanism of nervous system diseases at the molecular, cellular and body levels.
Cross-species neuroscience research is encouraged for perform research or develop novel
technologies and methods to solve bottleneck problems. Psychology and cognitive sciences will
continue to support the dominant areas, while encouraging interdisciplinary integration, using
modern neuroimaging, genomics, deep brain stimulation, big data analysis, longitudinal tracking,
computational models and other technologies and methods to promote in-depth research on
psychological activities and cognitive processes and their material basis, and to encourage the
development of new theories, technologies and models.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 14 secondary application codes instead of 3, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Physiology and Integrative Biology (C11)
Physiology and integrated biology are the basic disciplines of biomedicine, which study the
phenomena, laws and regulation of organism’s life activities. The scope of funding includes the
functions of various systems in physiological state and mechanism of their homeostasis
maintenance, the structural, metabolic and functional imbalance of cells, tissues and organs in
pathophysiological state, and innovative research on the interaction and functional integration of
cells, tissues, organs and systems. The discipline also encourages research on mechanisms of stress,
adaptation and compensation for organisms in special environments or diseases.
The core funding areas include: the mechanisms of heart and blood vessel homeostasis
maintenance and imbalance; hematopoietic regulation, coagulation and fibrinolysis, blood cell
function and abnormality; respiratory system function and abnormality; digestive system function
and its regulation mechanism; urinary system function and its regulation mechanism; classical and
non-classical endocrine tissue and organ function and regulation; nutrient and energy metabolism
regulation and imbalance mechanism, the role of trace elements homeostasis regulation, structure
and function of ion channel/transporter; neuroendocrine immune regulation, interaction regulation
between nervous system and other tissues and organs; maintenance and regulation mechanism of
reproductive system function; mechanism of structure, function regulation and abnormality of
movement related tissues and organs; mechanism of movement improving body function and
promoting health; regulation and abnormality of sensory organ function; biological rhythm and
physiological mechanism of aging; human tissue anatomy and embryology.
It is worth noting that the following common problems reflected from applications in
2020: (1) some of the projects applied had inaccurate understanding of the classification of
scientific problems (especially the “encouraging exploration and highlighting originality”
category); (2) the author’s contributions were not correctly marked in some applicants’
papers following publication common view; (3) some applicants did not pay enough attention
Funding Scope and Instructions
41
to medical ethics issues, and submitted projects without ethical review for the research
involving human subjects.
In 2021, the discipline will continue to encourage the comprehensive research on traditional,
cutting-edge and original technologies, and those carrying out in-depth multi-level integrated
investigation; encourage interdisciplinary research, especially those armed with various novel
technologies to further improve and expand the research frontier of human physiology and injury
adaptability; and encourage the research in the field of pathophysiology.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 18, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Please note in particular that applications concerning researches about plants,
traditional Chinese medicine, wild animals (except comparative physiology) and livestock are
not accepted in this discipline.
Division of Interdisciplinary Research
The Division covers disciplines as follows: biophysics and biochemistry, molecular biology
and biotechnology, and biomaterials, imaging and tissue engineering. The Division encourages
applicants to challenge the existing research paradigm, propose new research directions through
transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary convergence, and generate subversive academic ideas;
besides, the applicants are also encouraged to make innovations and breakthroughs in technology
and methods based on multi disciplines and multi perspectives, so as to solve the existing important
scientific problems in the field of life science.
Biophysics and Biochemistry (C05)
Biophysics and biochemistry is a cross discipline, applying the theory and method of
physics and chemistry to investigate mechanisms of biological problems and phenomena, to study
chemical composition of living organisms as well as chemical changes during the process of life,
and to investigate the life phenomena and activities of life process at the level of biological
molecules. By exploring the characteristics of biomolecules and their interactions, this discipline
has gradually expanded to grasp the whole process of important life activities, showing a distinct
progressive characteristic.
The funding scope of this discipline mainly includes: structural biology, molecular
biophysics, cell sensing and environmental biophysics, physical biology, protein, peptide and
enzyme biochemistry, sugar and lipid biochemistry, nucleic acid biochemistry, inorganic
biochemistry and environmental monitoring, biological process and metabolism, etc.
Considering the contents of applications received in recent years, fields with more
applications as well as more approved grants are the following: structural biology, interaction of
biomacromolecule, biochemistry of protein and polypeptide, biochemistry of enzyme, modification
of biomacromolecule, etc., whereas the application and research of environmental biophysics,
physical biology, systems biology were less funded.
The discipline encourages cross-disciplinary research on biophysics and biochemistry,
especially the application of new theory, disruptive ideas as well as novel technology to consider
life activity from a different angel. In order to further encourage the research work with original
scientific significance and respond to the relevant needs of national economy, this discipline will
give appropriate preference to the applications within the categories of “encouraging exploration,
highlighting originality” and “demand traction, breaking through bottlenecks”.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
42
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 17, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Special reminder to applicants: For high-resolution imaging, biomolecular labeling
and other instrument investigation projects, please select the corresponding application code
of molecular biology and biotechnology. For projects related to molecular modification of
biomaterials, please select the corresponding application code of biomaterials, imaging and
tissue engineering.
Biomaterials, Imaging and Tissue Engineering (C10)
The Discipline is a branch intercrossing of life science with other research areas, with clear
characteristics demand orientation and cross disciplinary interaction. The funding scope covers
biomechanics and biorheology, biomaterials, tissue engineering, biomedical electronics, bionics
and nano-biology.
The application and approval in 2020 is the following: the field of biomaterials is steadily
increasing, currently focused on implantation, interventional biomaterials, genes, drug carrier
biomaterials, material surface interface, biocompatibility, safety, etc.; in tissue engineering field,
most projects focused on bone and cartilage tissue engineering, oral tissue engineering, stem cell
transplantation and tissue regeneration, but there were lack of proposals on other important organ
tissue engineering, as well as novel methodology; in the sub-discipline of biomechanics, projects
were mostly in such fields as biomechanics of cellular and molecular biomechanics and
biorheology, cellular-molecular biomechanics, bone and other tissues and organs of the movement,
while biomechanics studies on other organs were rare; there was a generally lack of study in the
biological image and bioelectronics devices sub-discipline; in the field of nano biology, nano
carriers and delivery are dominant, while only a few studies were proposed on nano-bio safety
evaluation or nano technology. In addition, there were few applications in the fields of bionics and
artificial intelligence, new technologies and methods of biological and medical engineering.
This Discipline encourages applicants to carry out original, systematic and interdisciplinary
research in the fields of biomechanics and biorheology, biomaterials, tissue engineering,
bioimaging and bioelectronics, bionics and artificial intelligence, nanobiology, and new
technologies and methods of biological and medical engineering. This Discipline will focus on:
tissue and organ repair and regeneration, biological imaging and nano diagnosis and treatment,
cross-scale tissue and organ biomechanics, biomaterial and body interaction, support the research
of new biological and medical technologies and methods, and explore the pathogenesis and
treatment of diseases by using the principles and technologies of tissue engineering.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 8 secondary application codes instead of 7, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Special notes for applicants: biomaterial and bionic research other than
biology/biomedical applications is excluded in this discipline.
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology (C21)
Molecular biology is a discipline that studies the structure and function of bio-macro
molecules at the molecular level to clarify the essence of life phenomena. Biotechnology is a
subject of research, development and application of life science technology and methodologies,
which provides powerful new technology and methods for the research and development of life
sciences. The outstanding feature of molecular biology and biotechnology is the interdisciplinary
fusion of biology, physics, chemistry and computer science, providing original exploration and
Funding Scope and Instructions
43
source innovation for technology breakthrough and method innovation, analyzes and processes the
existing knowledge, intergradations of the life system, and finally providing potential solutions for
breaking through the related technology bottleneck.
In 2019 and 2020, most projects are focused on synthetic biology, histology technology,
gene editing and biomolecular manipulation and application of biotechnology, while there are still
lack of research on molecular biology, biomolecular detection technology, protein and vaccine
engineering, single molecule and single cell technology, stem cell and tissue engineering, biological
imaging, artificial intelligence biology, cutting-edge biotechnology, reagent development and new
instrument development.
Funding scope includes: basic theories of frontier technology including pilot theories and
principles in the field of molecular biology and biotechnology; synthetic biology and biological
transformation technology; biomics technology; generic biotechnology; cross fusion biotechnology;
applied biotechnology; and disruptive biotechnology.
In 2021, the discipline will continue to support interdisciplinary and original study,
encourage applicants to carry out new technology, new methods and new application research in
the fields of synthetic biology, gene editing, in situ and in vivo analysis of biomolecules, single
molecule and single cell analysis of complex systems, multi-scale multimodal imaging, artificial
intelligence and computational biotechnology. It should be noted that the determination of sugar
sequence and structure is the technical bottleneck of current sugar related research. This discipline
will continue to encourage applicants to carry out principle exploration and technology research
and development in this field, and will give appropriate preference to them. Meanwhile the subject
focuses on the development of reagents and new instruments related to basic research of life
science.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 7 secondary application codes instead of 21, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Division of Environment and Ecology
The Division supports researches in areas of ecology and forestry and grassland science.
Ecology (C03)
Ecology studies the interaction between organisms or between organisms and the
environment. It plays a pivotal role in solving the national ecological problems that are getting
increasingly important. The scope of funding includes basic and applied basic research in the fields
of ecological theory and methods, behavioral ecology, physiological ecology, population ecology,
community ecology, ecosystem ecology, landscape and regional ecology, global change ecology,
environment and biological evolution, pollution ecology and restoration ecology, soil ecology,
conservation biology, and sustainable ecology, etc.
In recent years, significant progress has been achieved in ecological study in China. Ecology
in China has made important progress in the fields of system construction and monitoring of field
observation stations and experimental platforms, ecosystem response to global change, evolution of
important biological groups and conservation biology, whereas traceability research is still common
and the overall quality of fundamental ecology needs to be improved. From the perspective of
project applications accepted in 2020, the development of sub disciplines is unbalanced: there are
more applications in the fields of physiological ecology, community ecology, ecosystem ecology,
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
44
soil ecology, global change ecology, conservation biology and restoration ecology etc., while lack
of applications in the fields of ecological theories and methods, evolutionary biology etc. There are
a small portion of applications, which failed to correctly mark the author’s contributions following
publication common view. Some of the projects had inaccurate understanding of the classification
of scientific problems (especially the “encouraging exploration and highlighting originality”
category).
In 2021, facing the forefront of ecological research, the discipline will further give priority
to support long-term field observation and research, application of new technologies and
interdisciplinary integration, integration and analysis of ecological big data. It will be encouraged
to carry on research in biodiversity and ecosystem functions, biological disasters and ecological
security, natural ecosystem protection and restoration, and support the development of ecological
research on evolutionary ecology and adaptation, ecological model and ecological prediction, and
regional sustainable development, etc.
In 2021, applications should accurately grasp the connotation of the four categories of
scientific issues, provide accurate information of the academic contribution, highlight the research
focus and moderate content, pay attention to the scientificity and feasibility of the technical route,
research methods and data processing, and strengthen the combination with the national needs.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 13 secondary application codes instead of 14, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Forestry and Grassland Science (C16)
Forestry and Grassland science is to reveal the essence and mechanisms of the biological
phenomena by taking forest and grassland as its research objects. The scope of funding includes:
grass germplasm resources and genetic breeding, grass cultivation protection and utilization, wood
physics, forest product chemistry, tree biology, forest soil science, forest cultivation, forest
informatics and forest management, forest protection, forest genetic breeding, economic forestry,
landscape architecture, desertification and soil and water conservation, and bamboo science.
In recent years, the fields of forest soil science, forest product chemistry, grass germplasm
resources and genetic breeding have developed rapidly, whereas the study of forest cultivation,
forest management and economic forestry has been shrinking. The project of homologous cloning
and heterologous function verification in forest genetic breeding is mostly tracking research,
lacking of novel theories and methodology for major breakthroughs. In 2020, the number of
proposals submitted such as landscape architecture, forest genetics and breeding, forest product
chemistry and wood physics is large, while there are much fewer applications to the sub-disciplines
like forest resource science, forest information science and forest management science. As for
grassland science, there are more applications for grass germplasm resources and genetic breeding,
grass physiology and cultivation processing, and less applications for grassland protection and
resource utilization and turfgrass science. There are a small portion of applications, which failed to
correctly mark the author’s contributions following publication common view. Some of the projects
had inaccurate understanding of the classification of scientific problems (especially the
“encouraging exploration and highlighting originality” category).
In 2021, the discipline will keep focusing on the national major needs, continue to
vigorously promote the development of basic research on forest and grass cultivation, protection
and resource utilization; give priority to continuous long-term field research; focus on supporting
conventional genetic breeding, formation and maintenance mechanism of mixed forest, relationship
between forest management measures and wood properties, grassland utilization and interference
mechanism, restoration and function improvement of degraded grassland. The Division encourages
Funding Scope and Instructions
45
the research on the genetic transformation and gene function verification system of model tree
species, the mining and innovation of germplasm resources, and vigorously support the economic
resources and utilization under the forest, forage cultivation, storage, processing and utilization.
In 2021, applications should accurately grasp the connotation of the four categories of
scientific issues, and provide accurate information of the academic contribution. This discipline
doesn’t accept the following fields: (1) proposals on pharmaceutical functional verification of
effective components targeting at animals; (2) research and development projects for forestry
machinery, wood cutting tools, road and bridge design, forest engineering machinery and
equipment, forest engineering and civil construction in forest areas; (3) projects in the forest
product chemistry field without forest biomass research will not accept.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 14 secondary application codes instead of 15, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Division of Agriculture and Food Sciences
The Division covers two disciplines: basic agriculture and crop science, and food sciences.
Basic Agriculture and Crop Science (C13)
The Discipline mainly supports basic and applied basic research on crops and their growing
environment, aiming at the major needs of national agriculture to carry out basic research with
prominent characteristics of “demand traction, breakthrough bottleneck”. In recent years, the
research fields of this discipline focus on: agricultural informatics and interdisciplinary agricultural
production system research, crop yield potential mining, cultivation physiological mechanism of
quality improvement and resource efficiency collaborative improvement, crop germplasm
resources research and the exploration and utilization of important factors, genetic control network
of important traits of main crops, crop molecular design The theory and method of breeding.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 12 secondary application codes instead of 6, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose. The new application code reflects the
interdisciplinary basis of agronomy, the theory and method of crop yield, quality and resistance
formation and regulation, the national demand of crop germplasm resources utilization and genetic
breeding, crop production process and its key technologies, etc.
It is reflected from the applications in 2020 that there was a climbing number of proposals
with basic issues on topics meeting the national demand of agriculture, an obvious increase in
interdisciplinary studies around basic agricultural issues. However, major problems remain as the
following: (i) researches on crop genome are generally concerned, but more attention is yet to pay
on further exploration of mechanisms of physiology and genetics; (ii) following-up work with the
international frontier is increasing, but it should be performed in close combination with practical
issues of national agricultural production, so that to provide potent support of basic research to
applied research; (iii) some of the applications are lack of systematic and sustainable studies; (iv)
there are more applications in agricultural information, utilizing physical methods (such as
spectrum, infrared, remote sensing, 3D photography) to acquire agricultural information, but there
is a lack of in-depth theoretical study, and difficulty exists on actual utilization; (v) some of the
proposals are not standardized with inaccurate information, such as untrue or incorrect contents in
the resume part, especially in the order of authors for publications, or the list failed to present the
real contribution of the applicant and others.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
46
The Discipline encourages applicants to condense scientific issues from the reality of
agricultural production in China, aiming at the frontier of the Discipline and the major needs of
national agriculture; encourages the development of basic research by combining modern
biotechnology with crop agronomic traits improvement; encourages the development of germplasm
resources mining and innovative research by using new technologies and methods; and encourages
the development of high-yield, light cultivation and resources around crops; encourage crop
cultivation regulation and tillage system based on efficient utilization; encourage research on
characteristic small crops.
Applications to the Discipline should take crops and crop products as their research
objects, and the interdisciplinary studies with other subjects should not depart from the
principal object; proposals purely studying agricultural materials, agricultural machinery
and facilities will not be accepted. The Discipline does not accept applications with research
objects of agricultural animals, animal products, microbe, forest, vegetable, traditional
Chinese medicine, algae, woods, and model plants of Arabidopsis thaliana.
Food Science (C20)
Food science studies basic research on food and food materials. In recent years, the
Discipline focuses on the following research fields: the selection, regulation and fermentation of
food microbial strains with independent intellectual property rights; the preparation of food enzyme
expression system and food enzyme engineering; the changing and interaction mechanism of food
nutrient components and their processing process; the biological basic research of organic food
processing and comprehensive utilization; the regulation of food storage and transportation as well
as post-harvest quality control mechanism; formation mechanism, detection methods and control
mechanism of food harmful substances; and separation, analysis and formation mechanism of food
flavor substances.
In 2020, the number of projects focusing on the actual scientific problems of agricultural
production in China has increased, and the trend of carrying out interdisciplinary research around
crop production is obvious. Major problems existing in proposals accepted in 2019 include: (i)
there were lack of projects to put forward and refine scientific problems according to the bottleneck
of food production in China; (ii) some projects focused on process and product development,
should pay more attention to the scientific problems behind the industrial bottleneck; (iii) many of
food inspection applications focused on detection methods, ignoring the impact of food matrix and
practical application goals; (iv) some of the projects followed the international research hotspots
one-sidedly, especially food nutrition and food detection, without consideration of the actual needs
of food science in China; (v) there were a small portion of applications, which failed to correctly
mark the author’s contributions following publication common view.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 12 secondary application codes instead of 9, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
The Discipline continues to encourage projects facing the major strategic needs of the
country, bases on the scope of funding, with condensed scientific issues from the actual food
production, especially the key technical issues that restrict the food industry in China. It is
encouraged to adhere to the guidance of scientific issues, closely focus on the actual food
production, and attach importance to traditional Chinese food, special food and food quality and
safety. Applicants are encouraged to focus on interdisciplinary research with food science as the
main body, integrate new theories, methods and technologies of other related disciplines, and
analyze key scientific issues of food science; encouraged to carry out original, continuous and
systematic basic research and applied basic research on the basis of their previous work.
Funding Scope and Instructions
47
The Discipline will not accept the following applications: (i) research on treatment to
human diseases; (ii) research on product development of health products and medicines; (iii)
research on the growth, development and metabolic physiology of animal and plant
cultivation and aquaculture; (iv) research on food machinery, packaging materials and food
processing technology.
Division of Agricultural Environment and Horticulture
The funding scope of the Division covers two disciplines: plant protection, horticulture and
plant nutrition.
Plant Protection (C14)
Plant protection is a subject that studies the biological characteristics, occurrence regularity
and disaster mechanism of crop diseases, insects, grass and rats, and carries out technological
innovation on this basis to establish green control strategies for pests. The Discipline covers plant
pathology, agricultural entomology, agricultural weeds, agricultural rats and other pest, plant
chemical protection, biological prevention and cure, quarantine of agricultural pests, invasion
biology, and biological techniques of plant protection, etc. Recently, the theory and technologies of
genomics, proteomics, metabolic and molecular genetics are widely applied in the innovation of
theory and techniques of pest control. However, basic research of plant protection in China is
relatively weak, and especially there is a large gap between China and developed countries in the
basic research on functional genomics of the interaction of important pests and crops, mechanisms
of pest’s virulence and crop resistance (sensibility), law of pest disaster, production and safe
utilization of new pesticides with high efficiency, low poison, and environment-friendly property,
etc.
The following problems exist in the 2020 applications: (i) some of the projects had
inaccurate understanding of the classification of scientific problems (especially the “encouraging
exploration and highlighting originality” category);(ii) the topics of some applied projects failed to
cut into the urgent problems in China’s agricultural production; (iii) some applications simply
traced or imitated researches related at home and abroad, or grafted one research method (or
material) to another material (or method), with a lack of original ideas; (iv) in some of the
applications, the research topics were over broadly laid out, with a lack of concrete of scientific
problems, and the research contents were not precise, lack of in-depth studies and substantive
subject intercrossing; (v) there are a small portion of applications, which failed to correctly mark
the author’s contributions following publication common view.
In 2021, the Discipline will continue to encourage the following fields: as for research
contents, it is encouraged to carry out explorations of the reciprocity mechanisms of
crop-pest-environment (biotic and abiotic) at either microscopic or macroscopic level; principles of
disaster of hazardous organisms; monitoring, forecast, prevention and control of pests; and the
basic and applied basic research of pesticide toxicology and its safe utilization. Special attention
should be paid to new scientific issues, combining with the factors of the national crop of
ecological features of different regions, to study the adjustment of industrial structure,
improvement of cultivation measures, and the global climate change, etc. On the research
approaches, emphasis should be put on the combination of new theory and new technologies with
traditional methods, as well as integration of laboratory work with field experiment. For
interdisciplinary studies, the specific aim of solving major scientific questions in the plant
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
48
protection field should be elaborated. Preferential support will be given to continuous and
systematic research.
Application to the Discipline should focus on the research object of crop pests, and
take the prevention and control of pest hazards as the scientific goal; otherwise it will not be
accepted. Applications taking woods or model organisms such as Arabidopsis and Drosophila
as main research objects will not be accepted.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 8 secondary application codes instead of 9, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Horticulture and Plant Nutrition (C15)
The funding scope of this discipline covers two research subjects, namely horticulture and
plant nutrition.
Horticulture studies physiology and cultivation of horticultural crops under natural
conditions, germplasm resources and genetic breeding, growth and development mechanism, as
well as protected horticulture and post-harvest quality maintenance under artificial control. The
funding scope of horticulture covers pomology, olericulture and fruit science, ornamental
horticulture, horticultural facilities, post-harvest biology of garden crops and food mycology. In
recent years, there has been a rapid development of basic research in horticulture in China. The
quality and activity of research work have been much improved in the field of horticulture: the
research objects have broadened and diversified, and research approach has been gradually
transferred from traditional organism level and cell level to molecular level; studies based on omics
have been actively carried out in horticulture. Great achievement has been made in the study on
basis of trait formation of horticulture crops, regulating measures, gene mining and function
identifying, germplasm excavations and innovation, mechanisms and control of quality formation,
response mechanisms to adversity, mechanisms of rootstock-scion interaction, and the formation
and regulation of unfavorable components of horticultural products.
Plant nutrition is the study of plant nutrition basis and fertilizer and nutrient technology
management discipline. The funding scope of plant nutrition covers the heredity of plant nutrition,
physiology of plant nutrition, manure and fertilizer science, nutrient resources and recycling,
crop-soil interaction and regulation, etc. In recent years, based on the frontier of subject
development and the demand of agricultural resources, environment and green development in
China, plant nutrition has made significant progress in the genetic mechanism of plant nutrition,
nitrogen and phosphorus recycling and efficient utilization of soil plant system, and the creation
and application of new fertilizers.
In 2020, common problems in both horticulture and plant nutrition layed in the following
three aspects: the research content in some of the applications was too broad and lack of the precise
layout of basic technique requirement for research approach and method; research on characteristic
horticultural crops is relatively weak; there were a large number of proposals pertaining to copying
and tracing research. Major problems with the discipline of horticulture is that some projects relied
too much on high-throughput technology and reverse genetics research methods, not closely related
to horticultural biology problems, and lack of biological significance mining for genomic data.
Major problems with the discipline of plant nutrition lay in the following aspects: there were many
researches on nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, while few on medium and trace elements; there
was a lack of coordination and interaction of elements; insufficient research on green new fertilizer
and cash crops; few research projects on water fertilizer coupling mechanism. In 2021, the
Discipline will continue to encourage endeavors on scientific issues based on national agricultural
practice and agricultural industry development, with a close combination of new approaches with
Funding Scope and Instructions
49
traditional methods. Priority funding will be given to original, continuous and systematic and
distinctive research. The discipline of horticulture will support proposals which take horticultural
crops as their research objects, and address scientific problems on the features of horticulture crops,
and production yield, quality, fastness, and constancy. Studies on the genetic, physiologic and
molecular mechanisms of nutrient utilization of high efficiency, interaction between crop, soil and
microbe and its control, and the coupling mechanisms of soil water and fertilizer, and its
effectiveness to crops will be prioritized in funding. It is especially encouraged to apply for the
experimental testification of laboratory research in the field and excellent proposals in “manure and
fertilizer science”. Researches on the nutrient mechanisms of middle and trace elements will also
be encouraged for an active promotion of healthy development of all branches in plant nutrition.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 13 secondary application codes instead of 10, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
Applications using forest or model plant like Arabidopsis as its research objects will be
not accepted by this Division. Application of medical health research projects will not be
accepted by this Discipline.
Division of Agriculture Animal
The funding scope of the Division covers three disciplines: animal husbandry, veterinary
science and aquatic science.
Animal Husbandry (C17)
Animal husbandry is a science that studies the germplasm resources, genetic breeding and
reproduction, growth and development, nutrition and feed of livestock and poultry (including
special economic animals).
Applications accepted and funded in 2019 covered all branches of this discipline, among
which, there are more grants in fields as animal genetics and breeding, animal reproduction, animal
nutrition and feed science, whereas fewer in animal husbandry foundation, animal germplasm
resources, animal behavior and welfare, breeding environment and facilities, beekeeping and
sericulture, etc. Peer review and evaluation of project indicated that the innovation of academic
ideas has been improved on the whole, and the characteristics and advantages have been formed in
animal genetics and breeding and animal nutrition. However there are still some obvious
shortcomings, such as indicated in the following aspects: some projects blindly followed the
research hotspots and new technologies, and the refinement of specific scientific problems
remained to be improved; not enough attention paid to focus on major national needs and some
project topics were out of touch with the actual problems of animal husbandry production, failing
to aim at solving the basic problems behind the bottleneck of animal husbandry production
technology.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 10, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
In 2021, the applicants are expected to accurately understand the attributes of the four
categories of scientific problems and continue to carry out original, systematic and continuous
research guided by industrial demand. The Discipline will continue to encourage research on the
discovery of excellent genes, regulation mechanism and important scientific issues related to
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
50
breeding of good breeds in livestock, poultry, silkworm and bee resources; encourage the basic
research on Germplasm resources, genetic breeding, reproduction, nutrition and feed of livestock
and poultry. Appropriate support should be given to the research on environment and pollution of
livestock and poultry, facilities and equipment of livestock and poultry and bee and silkworm
breeding, behavior and welfare, sericulture and apiculture. Applicants are encouraged to carry out
original, systematic and continuous research on the basis of their previous work, and to give
preference to the high quality of the completion of the pre-scientific fund projects.
Special notes for applicants are the following: study object of the research should be
livestock, poultry, grass, silkworm, or bee; interdisciplinary studies with other subjects are
not allowed to depart from the main research aspect above; otherwise the proposal will be not
funded.
Veterinary Science (C18)
Veterinary science is to study the occurrence, development, diagnosis, prevention and cure
of animal diseases. The Discipline covers the following branching: animal diseases, zoonoses,
public hygiene, laboratory animals, veterinary medicinal industry, etc., as well as other related
novel interdisciplinary research areas. The Discipline supports basic researches taking animal
diseases as major objects on animal infectious diseases, zoonoses, most common diseases and
comparative medicine.
Proposals accepted and funded in 2020 covered all subjects of this discipline. Among them,
the majority of applications were focused on veterinary immunology, veterinary epidemiology,
basic veterinary, clinical veterinary. Some of them were able to aim at the international frontiers,
highlight the creativeness in the selection of their research themes, and actively prompt the
international standard of research work. However, problems still exist as demonstrated here: some
of the applications paid much attention on the international hotspots, but were lacking of enough
concentration of scientific issues; there is not enough attention paid to the research on the major
needs of the country.
The Discipline is based on the national strategic needs of animal health, food safety, public
health, human health and environmental and ecological security. The Discipline will continue to
encourage studies on the epidemiology, pathogenic biology, mechanisms of pathogenic infection
and immunity about important animal epidemic diseases and zoonoses, meanwhile, strengthen
researches on the basic veterinary immunology, the non-infectious disease of animal mass
populations, food safety of animal source, and related research, and give moderate preferential
support to studies on traditional Chinese veterinary, and animal (veterinary) pathology, etc.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 11 secondary application codes instead of 9, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
In 2021, applicants are expected to accurately understand the attributes of the four
categories of scientific problems. The Discipline requests applicants to take animal diseases as their
main research objects and interdisciplinary studies should not deviate from the research objects.
This Discipline encourages research for the development of national animal husbandry and
veterinary science, aiming at defeating new and recurrent animal diseases.
Special notes to applicants: when involving highly pathogenic microbes, the operation of the
project must strictly abide by the relevant animal ethics provisions of the state, with the biological
safety of the appropriate conditions.
Aquatic Science (C19)
Aquatic science is to study basic rules of the development, growth, breeding, genetics,
Funding Scope and Instructions
51
physiology and immunology of aquatic organisms and their breeding ecology, breeding engineering,
nutrition and foodstuff, control of diseases and pests, and the protection and utilization of aquatic
resources, etc.
In 2020, most of proposals accepted and funded were in areas of immunology and disease
control of aquatic organisms, basic biology of aquatic organisms, nutrition and feed science of
aquatic animals, genetics and breeding of aquatic organisms, etc., whereas there were fewer
applications in aquaculture and fishery engineering. Relatively in-depth studies were conducted on
important economic traits of aquatic animals, molecular characters of important pathogens and their
pathogenesis, etc., and some of studies have formed their own research features and superiority in
some aspects. It can be seen from peer review and panel meetings that the creativeness of academic
thoughts of proposals were obviously improved. However, only a small portion of applications
were able to propose original research on the important scientific issues of aquiculture, whereas for
most of the studies, concentration of specific scientific issues was yet to be improved.
In 2021, the application code of this discipline has been updated and integrated. There
are 9 secondary application codes instead of 8, and each secondary application code has
multiple research directions for applicants to choose.
In 2021, the applicants are expected to accurately understand the attributes of the four
categories of scientific problems and continue to carry out original, systematic and continuous
research guided by industrial demand. The Discipline will request applicants to focus their studies
on research fields of aquatic science, and aim at the frontier and important demands of production.
The interdisciplinary study on aquaculture subjectively with other disciplines will be encouraged. It
will be strengthened to support proposals with original ideas. Applicants should choose topics
based on new development of subjects concerned at home and abroad, and their research
background, aim at scientific problems, focus on original innovation, and avoid over emphasizing
on R&D for technology while lacking of key scientific issues. Research on model organisms should
be based on aquaculture science. The Discipline will encourage cooperation of applicants with
superior units and teams, so as to fully exert regional and resource priority, and enforce cultivation
of talents. The Division will prioritize applications in the following areas: genetic rules and gene
function of economic traits of important breeding organisms; epidemiology and pathogenesis of
important aquatic organisms; host immunity and diseases prevention and treatment; molecular basis
and regulation mechanisms of breeding and development of important aquatic organisms;
regulation mechanisms of the utilization as well as metabolism of nutrient stuffs for aquatic
animals. Moderate priority support will be provided in the following areas: basic research of
aquatic breeding and interaction with eco-environment, conservation of aquatic resource, new
model and new techniques of breeding, etc.