Department of Mathematical and Physical Sciences
Mathematical and physical sciences (including mathematics, mechanics, astronomy, physics
I and physics II) are important foundations of natural science, and the precursor and basis for the
development of contemporary science. Disciplines in mathematical and physical sciences are
peculiar in characteristics, such as big differences between or among disciplines, and pure
theoretical research (such as mathematics, theoretical physics) and experimental studies. Many
disciplines feature “mega-science”, such as particle physics, nuclear physics, astronomical physics,
and high temperature plasma physics.
In their own development, mathematical and physical sciences also provide theories,
methods and means for other disciplines. Research findings in mathematics and physics play a key
role in promoting the progress of both basic and applied scientific disciplines.
Mathematical and physical sciences have extensive interactions with other sciences, for
example, with information science, life science and management science; physics with materials
science, life science, information science and chemistry; astronomy with earth science, and
mechanics with engineering science, material science and earth science. The interactions produce a
series of interdisciplinary and cross-boundary disciplines and new research areas have emerged,
and at the same time research objects and areas in mathematical and physical sciences are also
expanding.
The Department will continue to increase its support on basic research that takes as its
primary goals advancing the disciplinary development, promoting original innovation and training
talented researchers and meeting the needs of national long-term development, as well as
interdisciplinary research within the Department and with other departments.
In 2020, the Department received 7,799 applications for General Programs, which is 902
more than that of 2019, increasing 13.08%. 1,750 projects were funded, the funding rate was
22.44%, and the funding per project was 589,100 yuan in average. The funding per project was
512,800 yuan for mathematics, 620,100 yuan for mechanics, 619,700 for astronomy, 619,800 for
physics I and 618,500 for physics II.
In 2020, the Department received 7,355 applications for Young Scientists Programs, and
funded 1,813. The success rate was 24.65%. The development of young scientists is particularly
important for the development of mathematical and physical sciences. The Department has always
been paying attention to fostering and supporting young scientists, and the funding rate of the
Young Scientists Fund has always been higher than that of General Program projects.
In 2020, the Department received 1,015 applications for Less Developed Region Programs,
and funded 200. The success rate was 19.70%. The funding per project was 349,500 yuan in
average.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
18
Funding in Department of Mathematical and Physical Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Developed
Regions
Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%)
Mathematics Mathematics I 237 12,153 22.61 261 6,240 24.81 45 1,440 23.08
Mathematics II 262 13,434 22.26 299 7,144 24.45 47 1,563 17.15
Mechanics
Basic problems
and methods in
mechanics
6 374 24.00 5 120 21.74 1 37 25.00
Dynamics and
control 71 4,423 24.65 60 1,432 24.00 7 261 22.58
Solid mechanics 159 9,861 22.88 169 4,016 25.61 13 485 20.31
Fluid mechanics 85 5,261 21.09 103 2,464 25.56 5 187 17.24
Bio-mechanics 24 1,475 22.02 23 552 23.47 — — —
Explosive and
impact
dynamics
38 2,354 21.30 44 1,048 21.57 1 37 25.00
Astronomy
Astrophysics 47 2,881 22.93 43 1,008 25.90 6 212 24.00
Astrometry and
celestial
mechanics
45 2,820 21.95 38 912 23.90 1 37 11.11
Physics I
Condensed
matter physics 227 14,100 22.34 219 5,224 24.61 26 964 19.55
Atomic and
molecular
physics
45 2,795 22.61 51 1,216 25.37 6 224 20.69
Optics 140 8,654 22.47 144 3,416 24.57 15 548 19.74
Acoustics 34 2,093 22.67 33 792 24.63 3 111 20.00
Physics II
Fundamental
physics and
particle physics
103 6,285 23.00 90 2,136 25.94 13 474 20.00
Nuclear physics,
nuclear
technology and
its applications
103 6,452 21.96 89 2,136 24.32 5 190 19.23
Particle physics
and nuclear
physics
experimental
facilities
64 3,977 20.85 84 2,016 23.53 1 38 14.29
Plasma physics 60 3,698 24.59 58 1,392 24.58 5 182 21.74
Total or average 1,750 103,090 22.44 1,813 43,264 24.65 200 6,990 19.70
Direct cost per project 58.91 — 34.95
Division of Mathematics
Mathematics (A01─A06)
The Division encourages creative research on important issues in the mainstream and
frontier of mathematics, explorations of new ideas, new theories and methods in mathematics and
interdisciplinary applications, inter-crossing of different branch disciplines with mathematics, and
applied mathematical research on practical issues. Applicants are required to have sound research
background and capability. Proposal should be prepared based on deep understanding of the current
Funding Scope and Instructions
19
status of the research involved, main issues and relevant research methods and available
approaches. The Division encourages researchers to consolidate research team, foster talents and
promote academic exchanges through the funded research projects. Research direction adjustment
is allowable when needed.
For basic mathematics, the funding aims at maintaining stable development of research
directions where China is traditionally strong and has comparatively large-scale research capability,
promoting fast development of research areas that are within the mainstream of international
mathematical research but relatively weak in China, and promoting interdisciplinary research
among branches of mathematics. Focus is given to algorithm, grid theory and its algorithm,
geometrical method in representation theory, comparative geometry and geometric analysis in
non-smooth space, application of modern harmonic analysis in number theory, associate geometry
and geometric measure, random analysis method and application, and mathematical problems in
quantum field theory.
The funding for applied mathematics and computational mathematics aims at improving
applications in solving practical problems, and gives more emphasis on basic theory and new
methods with strong practical background and sound potentials for application. NSFC encourages
mathematical modeling of practical problems, analysis and computation, and statistical methods
and theory for big data, supports research on mathematical physical logic, algorithm complexity,
discrete probability modeling, optimal algorithm, and combinational algorithm. Focus is given to
applied researches such as mathematical modeling and theory of new materials, uncertainty theory
in data processing, coding theory and information security, mathematical modeling and analysis in
environmental and energy sciences, bio-information and life system, pathogenesis and control of
infectious disease, mathematical methods for complex bio-process and development of diseases,
statistical methods in industry and medical science, statistical and optimization method in deep
learning and artificial intelligence, modeling and analysis in economic prediction and financial risk
management, and mathematical theory and new method for industrial, medical imaging and image
processing.
Division of Mechanics
Mechanics (A07─A13)
The Division mainly supports research on dynamics and control, solid mechanics, fluid
mechanics, biomechanics, physical mechanics, explosion and impact dynamics, and environmental
mechanics. The Division supports projects with creative ideas in the frontiers of mechanical
research on the one hand and projects closely related to the sustainable development of economy,
society and national security, and the development of engineering and technology on the other hand.
The Division supports interdisciplinary research and encourages experimental research using the
available experimental facilities and key labs in China and advocates the research and development
of engineering analysis software in computational mechanics.
Applications for research in areas of dynamics and control should pay attention to the theory,
methods and experimental studies on nonlinear dynamics and control of vibration and noise in
frontiers of the discipline and major national needs, strengthen research on complex systems such
as non-smooth system, uncertain system, random system, new structure and flexible system, the
coupling of solid, flexible bodies, and multi fields interactions. The Division encourages studies on
flight mechanics and space environmental dynamics, analytical mechanics and multi body
dynamics, and key issues of dynamics and control problems in major engineering projects, and
encourages experimental studies on dynamics and control.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
20
Applications in the area of solid mechanics should pay attention to international frontier and
creative ideas, give more consideration to intercrossing with physics, materials science, chemistry,
information and biological sciences, and strengthen on proposing and studying topics in major
engineering application, expand basic theory of continuum mechanics, and promote the
development of multi-scale mechanics and multi-field coupled mechanics. Proposals in such areas
will be encouraged as follows: the constitutive theory of materials at macro, meso and micro scales;
the theory of strength, crack, fatigue and failure mechanism; the mechanical behavior of new
materials and structures; experimental measurement techniques and representation methods, new
theory and method in computation mechanics and high performance computational software,
structural response, optimization and completeness evaluations.
Applications in fluid mechanics should pay attention to studies on the laws and mechanisms
governing complex flows. The Division encourages researches on micro-nano scale flow, rarefied
gas flow, hypersonic aerodynamics, aerodynamic noise, measurement techniques in experimental
fluid mechanics, flow control technique, new methods in CFD and high performance computational
software, especially theory, simulation and experimental studies on high temperature, high pressure
and compressible turbulent flow, high speed hydrodynamics, multi-phase complex flow,
non-Newtonian flow, and key fluid dynamic problems in aerospace, energy, ocean and
transportation areas.
Applications in biomechanics should pay attention to bio mechanical and mechanical
biology problems related to human health and disease, life process, biomechanics and biology in
sports, mechanism and transformation medicine related to diseases such as cardiovascular, bone
joint and cancer, rehabilitation, tissue engineering, bio-material and bionics, medical materials and
equipment, and public health related areas, and encourage experimental studies and software
development on biomechanics.
Applications for explosive and impact dynamics should pay attention to frontier areas and
major national needs, focusing on studies of the dynamic mechanical behaviors of materials,
structural response to explosive impacts and detonation mechanisms, dynamic loading and
diagnosis, strengthen mechanism of explosive energy release and encourage studies on dynamic
response of material and structure in multi field coupling under extreme dynamic loading
environment and protection of human bodies.
Applications for environmental mechanics should pay attention to basic theory of rock
mechanics, environmental fluid mechanics, mechanics in extreme conditions and disaster damage,
experimental method and numerical methods. The Division encourages studies on wind-sand and
water-sand disasters water pollution, urban smog, and rock deformation, damage and mechanism of
disaster formation.
The Department continues to support studies on instruments, new experimental methods and
techniques with innovative ideas. The Department will keep supporting projects in computational
software development, giving stress on the integration and standardization research on the
development of the computational mechanics software which may produce independent or shared
IPR.
Division of Astronomy
Astronomy (A14─A19)
The Division mainly supports researches on astrophysics, basic astronomy, astronomical
instruments and technology. In accordance with the trend of astronomical development in the world
and the present situation in China, the Division supports research proposals with emphasis on the
Funding Scope and Instructions
21
development of technology and instrumentation. Studies based on existing observation apparatus or
facilities to be built soon in China will be encouraged. The Division promotes the combination of
innovative ideas, observation and theories, and studies on new technologies and methodologies for
astronomy, especially those closely related to mega-science projects under construction in China.
Interdisciplinary research is strongly encouraged so as to gradually build up research teams with
special features and influence in international scientific communities. International cooperation and
exchange will be given much attention.
In the General Program projects funded in recent years, a good balance has been achieved
between astrophysics (including galaxies and cosmology, stellar and interstellar medium, solar and
planetary system), basic astronomy (including astrometry and celestial mechanics) and
astronomical instruments and technology and methods. Young researchers have become the main
force in astronomical research and more than half of the awardees are under the age of 40.
In 2021, in addition to strengthen continuous support for projects integrating theory and
observation and projects conducted by young scientists, the Division will emphasize on
interdisciplinary research with physics, space science, earth science and information science, etc.,
maintain support on research on advantageous directions, promote research related to using large
observatory facilities in China, and foster research topics that have the potential of making
breakthroughs. The Division encourages research on basic physical process of celestial bodies,
celestial chemical evolution, and celestial bodies in the solar system, extra solar system planetary
system, infrared astronomy, space astronomical measurement, and astronomical research that
addresses the national needs. The priority will be given continuously to researches in basic
astronomy, astronomical technology and methods, and to relative small scaled astronomical
research institutions.
In the next few years, the Division plans to give special support to pre-research around the
research based on equipment that has already been built or being built, and conceptual studies on
new technologies that are urgently needed for large-scale telescope and space exploration. For
applicant in these research areas, please mark “Major S&T Basic Facilities Project” or “New
Astronomical Technology” in the application forms.
Division I of Physics
Physics I (A20─A24)
The funding scope of the Division covers research on condensed matter physics, atomic and
molecular physics, optics, acoustics and new research areas formed between these four disciplines
and other disciplines.
According to the current status and requirements of disciplinary development, the Division
pays attention to study on experimental methods and techniques motivated by creative ideas,
encourages researches in new computational methods and simulation software closely related to
experimental physics and exploratory types, key basic physical issues serving national needs, and
new physical concepts and methods in interdisciplinary areas. We encourage especially in-depth
and sustained studies on important physical problems that have not become hot topics, and
researches in basic physical problems on devices, and new areas and directions.
For the funding in condensed matter physics, the Division will pay attention to quantum
physics in electron related systems, macro quantum phenomenon, quantum phenomena and
quantum effects in various low dimensional and small-scale systems, solid state quantum
information and quantum computation, strengthen self-spinning and magnetism, topological state,
physics and device physics and advanced technologies and methods of characterization, structural
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
22
and physical properties of surface and interface physic in extreme conditions, and physical
problems in energy transformation, transport and storage, and expand physics and application of
advanced functional materials. Encouraged areas include physical issues and experimental methods
related to soft matters, biophysics, and AI. The Division pays special attention to creative studies
on material, device and physics having important application prospects.
For areas of atomic and molecular physics and optics, the Division encourages researchers
to pay attention to atomic, molecular and cluster structures and dynamics, cold atomic and
molecular physics and interactions with optical fields, interactions of atomic and molecular systems,
interactions between laser and atoms, propagation process of light in new media and its
characteristics, quantum frequency markers, quantum metrology, quantum information, physics and
methods of precision atomic and molecular spectra and precision measurement, strengthens basic
and applied research on high resolution, high sensitivity laser spectrum, micro nano photonics,
optical mechanics, surface plasma exciter and optical field regulation. The Division encourages
research on frontier physical issues in photonics, optical electronics and interdisciplinary subjects.
In the area of acoustics, according to the major needs, studies on key fundamental acoustic
problems will be encouraged. Physical acoustics and interdisciplinary research in marine acoustics,
ultrasonic and acoustic effect, noise and control, new acoustic materials and devices, acoustic
energy exchanger, and issues in information technology, etc., will be in priority.
In recent years quantum science and technology are developing fast. According to the
development trend, the Division adds the area of quantum regulation, so as to promote research in
related material and physics, new quantum structure, quantum effect and applications. The Division
encourages exploratory studies on precision measurement physics, quantum computation and
communication, and quantum simulation, and research on quantum device physics and new
quantum techniques. Focus will be given to condensed matter physics, atomic molecular physics
and optics, and interdisciplinary research on information science and material science.
Division II of Physics
Physics II (A25─A30)
The Division mainly supports research on fundamental physics, particle physics, nuclear
physics, accelerator, reactor and detector, plasma physics, and nuclear techniques and applications.
For fundamental physics, funding will be focused on original studies and interdisciplinary
research with other disciplines. Stress will be given to important theoretical physical issue arising
from scientific experiments and applications.
For particle physics and nuclear physics, the Division will support creative theoretical and
experimental research, in particular, the combination of theoretical and experimental studies related
to selected large-scale experimental facilities that are in operation, upgrading or to be completed
soon both in China and abroad. Funding will be used to guide research towards the understanding
of important physical rules related to the latest experimental results, such as the theory and
experiments of phenomenology in particle physics and interdisciplinary research of nuclear physics
under extreme conditions with nuclear astrophysics and other disciplines.
For support to nuclear technology, accelerator, reactor and detector, low-temperature plasma
and synchronized radiation method and technology, it is hoped that fundamental issues should be
drawn from the disciplinary development, national demands and intercrossing with other
disciplines, which may facilitate a deeper understanding of physical laws underlying the
development of the disciplines and important applications at the same time. Emphasis will be laid
on key technologies and innovative ideas in methodology and intercrossing with other disciplines.
Funding Scope and Instructions
23
In addition, the exploration of mechanisms and rules governing the interaction of matter with
instantaneous, high energy, high power and strong field radiation (such as charged particles, X/γ,
neutron and electromagnetic fields) are key areas for funding. Attention will be given to new
acceleration principles, nanometer micro-beam, high power ion beam, strong current accelerators,
plasma radiation source in accelerator and detector and plasma research, and physics and key
technologies of all other advanced radiation sources. The Division gives strong support to new
types of nuclear detection technology and method such as large area, high counting rate, high
temporal resolution, low cost and weak signals, etc., and relevant studies on nuclear electronics.
For nuclear fusion and plasma physics, more attention will be given to the exploration of
new diagnostic means related to large facilities which are in operation at present or will be built
soon. In particular, basic research on advanced magnetic confinement fusion and new approaches
to inertial confinement fusion and related fundamental physical problems, and computer simulation
and experimental studies of various kinds of plasma will be stressed.
In order to make more efficient use of limited funds, the Division encourages researchers all
over China to make full use of big science facilities, small and medium equipment to conduct
research, so as to achieve sustainable development in the research. The Division encourages
experimental studies with innovative methods of high resolution diagnosis and detection, and, as
well as the development of experimental facilities, detection and diagnosis devices which are
important for the development of accelerators, detectors and gravitational wave detection.
Applicants may increase the funding request in applications in these areas according to the actual
needs. Projects with more young scientists involved in the research team under the same condition
will be preferred.