Department of Chemical Sciences
Chemistry is the science that deals with the composition, structures, properties, reactions
and transformations of matters, which plays a central role in multidisciplinary crossing and
integration. Chemical engineering, involved as the unique industrial characteristic of the chemistry
subject, aims to realize large-scale production by applying the principles of transfer and conversion
of matters and energy, and ultimately to construct substantial foundation for essentials and
sustainable development of human society.
The Department is dedicated to raise the overall quality and international status of China’s
fundamental research, and the creative talents and groups with international impact in the fields of
chemistry and chemical engineering. Specifically, the Department stimulates and financially
supports multi-scale research on the reaction, process and function at different levels of atoms,
molecules, molecular aggregation and condensed state. Studies on complex chemical systems are
also encouraged to secure the precise control and logic cognition of chemical synthesis, process and
function. Moreover, the Department is focused on expanding knowledge of chemistry and chemical
engineering in multiple research fields, such as biology, materials, energy, information, resources,
environmental science and human health, targeted at the major issues confronting economy, society,
national security and sustainable development. Accordingly, the projects awarded by the
Department basically focus on the frontier research in chemistry and chemical engineering through
various strategies, including the combination of microscopy and macroscopy, statics and dynamics,
theoretical chemistry, empirical approach and precise analytical technologies, and fundamental
experiments and process engineering. In addition, innovative and interdisciplinary research works
addressing new theories, technologies and achievements from other disciplines are highly
encouraged.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
24
The Department will consistently promote innovative and high-quality research in the
cutting-edge fields, with a focus on in-depth and systematic research works, and a priority support
to proposals on the basis of multidisciplinary crossing and integration. The Department rewards
creative projects by placing emphasis on the research diversity of ideas, methods and contents,
whereas research similarity and combination are highly discouraged. Besides, the Department will
make every effort to support original research of a certain risk, so as to overcome innovation
bottleneck that limited the rapid development of chemistry and chemical engineering in China,
ultimately enabling a breakthrough from high-quantity to high-quality research. In the review
process, scientific excellence is the core criterion for selection and discipline development with
balance, coordination and sustainability will be comprehensively considered. The aim is to promote
the fundamental research of chemistry and chemical engineering in China to the international
frontier.
Funding in Department of Chemical Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Divisions
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Developed
Regions
Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Funding
rate (%)
Synthetic chemistry 275 17,309 20.21 273 6,512 17.06 49 1,960 15.22
Catalysis and surface/interface
chemistry 186 11,726 20.39 193 4,608 17.02 27 1,080 15.00
Chemical theory and
mechanism 115 7,247 20.61 80 1,896 16.99 10 386 15.87
Chemical measurement 162 10,205 20.66 137 3,240 17.23 20 800 15.04
Materials chemistry
And energy chemistry 333 20,983 20.45 356 8,312 17.44 42 1,680 15.16
Environmental chemistry 225 14,182 20.51 168 4,032 16.99 27 1,080 15.17
Chemical biology 145 9,142 20.39 107 2,544 17.04 21 840 14.89
Chemical engineering
And industrial chemistry 374 23,580 20.35 268 6,392 17.06 39 1,560 15.00
Total or average 1,815 114,374 20.42 1,582 37,536 17.14 235 9,386 15.12
Direct cost per project 63.02 — 39.94
For the selection of General Program projects, the Department received 8,889 proposals in
2020, an increase of 935 proposals or 11.76 % compared with the year 2019. After review, 1,815
proposals were funded with the success rate of 20.42 % and the average direct cost of 630,200 yuan
per project. In 2020, the success rate decreased by 0.64 % compared with that of 2019 to guarantee
the funding intensity. The proposals received and funded as well as their ratios in the main research
orientations of chemistry and chemical engineering were slightly increased compared with that of
2019. There was an increase in received proposals related with the convergence research areas such
as materials and energy, life health and environmental resources.
For the selection of Young Scientists Fund projects, the Department received 9,229
proposals in 2020, an increase of 1,214 or 11.76 % compared with the year 2019. After review,
1,582 proposals were funded with the success rate of 17.14 % and the average direct cost of
237,300 yuan per project. In 2020, the success rate decreased by 2.40 % compared with that of
2019. The Department upholds the principle of talents first and fosters innovative talents, brings
into full play the maintaining and fostering role of the Young Scientists Fund, and steadily enhances
the funding following the idea of properly controlling the funding intensity and further expanding
Funding Scope and Instructions
25
the funding scope. The Young Scientists Fund stresses on the research projects with innovative
ideas, discourages the research that simply continue the advisors’ topics, and gives less weight to
research accumulation and the constitution of the relevant research teams, so as to facilitate the
growth of young scientists.
For the selection of Fund for Less Developed Regions projects, the Department received
1,554 proposals in 2020, an increase of 194 or 14.26 % compared with the year 2019. After review,
235 proposals were funded with the success rate of 15.12 % and the average direct cost of 399,400
yuan per project. In 2020, the success rate decreased by 2.16 % compared with that of 2019. On the
basis of stabilizing the funding scale of the Fund for Less Developed Regions, the Department will
make efforts to further promote the research quality and efficiency of the Fund, stabilize a batch of
research talents for fundamental research, and continuously bridge the gap with the developed
regions. Applicants are encouraged to carry out research by taking advantage of the local resources,
in order to promote the economic development of the regions in a coordinated way.
Attention: Proposals that have the same or similar research contents cannot be applied
by different applicants.
Division I of Chemistry
The Division supports research in the field of synthetic chemistry.
Synthetic Chemistry (B01)
Synthetic chemistry is the science dealing with the creation and transformation of matter,
which involves the synthesis and assembly of inorganic, organic, polymeric substances, etc.
Synthetic chemistry is to selectively control the process of creation and transformation of
molecules and substances, so as to realize the precise preparation and application of new materials
with specific properties and/or functions. As the basis of chemical science, Synthetic chemistry
actively seeks interdisciplinary interactions and collaborations, searches for solutions to major
scientific problems, and boosts the economic and social development.
Synthetic chemistry is to fulfill the demand for new substances, new materials and new
devices in the fields of physical sciences, life sciences, and applied science including materials
science, computer science and information technology, energy and environmental science. The
relevant research activities mainly focus on: seeking rational design and structural control of
substances with potential functions, their synthesis/assembly methodologies and reaction processes
with high efficiency and selectivity; developing new synthetic strategies, inspired by biosynthesis
of living systems, facilitated with the combination of the state-of-the-art research technologies in
physics and computation science; exploring the mechanism and rules of reactions and conversion
processes, and establishing the corresponding fundamentals and standardized protocols. Synthetic
chemistry aims at a safer, greener and more efficient goal, making the synthesis of matter more
precise and environment friendly. It will put more emphasis on human health, effective utilization
of natural resources, and sustainable development. To this end, the following directions are
preferentially encouraged: synthetic chemistry promoted by new reagents, new reactions, new
concepts, new strategies and new theory; synthetic methodology of atom economy, precise control
and sustainability; biological and biomimetic synthesis rationalized by chemical principles;
synthesis under unconventional and extreme conditions; non-covalent synthesis based on
intermolecular interactions; molecular design and synthesis of novel functional materials;
controlled synthesis and high-performance functionalization of macromolecules; novel substances
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
26
and their emerging properties and function.
The Division appreciates the research activities focusing on creation and transformation of
molecules and substances, which actively involve interdisciplinary interactions and collaborations,
original and fundamental breakthroughs, and substantially supportive and beneficial to industrial
applications.
Division II of Chemistry
The Division supports the research in the field of catalysis and surface/interface chemistry
and chemical theory and mechanism.
Catalysis and Surface/Interface Chemistry (B02)
Catalysis and surface/Interface chemistry are intended to study catalytic processes and the
structure and properties of the surface/interface and to reveal the physical and chemical basic rules
of catalysis and the surface/interface.
The areas funded by Catalysis and surface/Interface chemistry include chemical catalysis,
surface chemistry, colloid and interface chemistry and electrochemistry. These areas involve
surfaces, gas-solid interfaces, gas-liquid interfaces, liquid-liquid interfaces, liquid-solid interfaces
and solid-solid interfaces and gas-liquid-solid multi-phase interfaces.
Supports in the field of chemical catalysis are focused on developing new concepts and
catalytic theory, discovering new catalytic reactions and creating new catalytic materials,
promoting the cross-over and fusion between heterogeneous, homogeneous and biological catalysis,
fostering the understanding of rational design and regulation of catalytic active site structures,
developing new catalytic characterization methods and technologies with the features of in-situ,
dynamic and high temporal-spatial resolution, strengthening the research on catalytic reaction
mechanisms as well as structure-performance relationships and the coupling and integration during
the catalytic reactions.
Surface chemistry mainly supports the research at atomic and molecular levels on chemical
and physical processes related to solid surface interfaces, as well as their correlative
characterization techniques and methods. Encouraged research orientations include: solid
surface/interface structure, performance and control; dynamics and energy transfer theory in the
assembly and reactions at surface/interface; the new methods for physical and chemical processes
at surface/interface.
Colloid and interface chemistry supports the research on the usage of new methods and
techniques to reveal the essences of colloids and interface chemistry; the design and synthesis of
new surfactants and the construction of aggregation; the development of new dispersion systems;
the understanding of assembly processes, interface adsorption and filtration behaviors; construction
of a colloidal material with self-healing and outfield responsiveness; the enhancement of basic
research for applications of colloid and interface chemistry in the fields of material, life science and
environment science.
Electrochemistry mainly supports the research including the construction and
characterization of electrochemical interface systems; the methods of in-situ electrochemical
spectroscopy with high spatial and temporal resolution; the theory and simulation methods of
electrochemical systems; surface/interface process in the high-end manufacturing of electronics;
recognition and control of electric charge transfer, mass transport and conversion in
electrochemical interface; design, synthesis and characterization methods for electrocatalysts;
Funding Scope and Instructions
27
reveal of problems in the fields of electrochemical energy conversion and storage, electrochemical
synthesis, bioelectrochemistry, photoelectrocatalysis and electrochemical engineering and
manufacturing.
Chemical Theory and Mechanism (B03)
Chemical theory and mechanism aims to establish and develop new chemical theories and
experimental methods to reveal the mechanism and basic rules of chemical reaction and its related
processes.
The areas supported by chemical theory and mechanism include theoretical chemistry,
computational chemistry, chemical thermodynamics, chemical kinetics and reaction dynamics,
structural chemistry, photochemistry and spectroscopy, chemical reaction mechanisms, moletronics
and molecular magnetism, polymer physics and polymer physical chemistry, chemical informatics
and artificial intelligent.
Chemical theory and mechanism focuses on the new methods of electronic structure theory,
dynamics and statistical mechanics, conducting theoretical design and computational simulation of
complex systems such as chemical system, material system, energy system and biological system,
and the development of computational chemistry methods and software. For chemical
thermodynamics, there is a need to develop theoretical and experimental methods suitable for
complex systems, revealing the internal logic between microstructures and system thermodynamic
properties, and to focus on the applications of chemical thermodynamics in biological
systems/energy systems/material systems and other cross fields. Research in chemical kinetics and
reaction dynamics focuses on the development and utilization of new experimental and theoretical
methods to explore the substantive characteristics of the chemical reaction and the non-adiabatic
process during the reaction as well as the chemical kinetics in extreme conditions. Applicants are
encouraged to conduct research employing advanced coherent light source and focus on the work
of ultrafast dynamics, microstructure and mechanisms of condensed phase. Structural chemistry
focuses on the structural characterization and techniques of complex functional systems,
controllable synthesis and assembly, dynamic bonding and transformation, and encourages the
rational design, construction and application of mew multi-porous structures. Research of
photochemistry and spectroscopy should focus on the development of spatial resolved,
time-resolved and energy-resolved new technologies and their new assembly methods to the study
of photochemical and photophysical mechanism of luminescent and light conversion material. The
research of chemical reaction mechanisms will be focused on exploring microscopic mechanism
and basic rules of chemical reaction by means of theoretical chemistry, computational chemistry
and experimental strategies, clarifying molecular polarization, electronic coupling, and mechanism
of spin conversion. Polymer physics and polymer physical chemistry mainly focus on the chain
behavior and interaction of macromolecules, the evolution mechanism and control over different
scales of the structure, the essence of the connection between microstructure and macroscopic
properties. For chemical informatics, it is encouraged to develop algorithms for storage, retrieval,
transformation and data mining of molecular structure information based on general system
principles. Artificial intelligent in chemistry should base on big data and artificial intelligent
technologies, and focus on its application in chemistry, chemical engineering, material, energy, and
life science.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
28
Division III of Chemistry
The Division supports research in the field of Materials chemistry and Energy chemistry.
Materials Chemistry (B05)
Materials chemistry is to study the design, preparation, structure, property and application of
materials. It is a bridge between chemistry and materials, energy, environment, life, medicine and
information science. Materials chemistry is the scientific basis of new material systems. Principles
and methods of chemical sciences are used to design new materials at the atomic and molecular
levels and to develop preparation techniques and study the structure-activity relationships of
materials. It aims to realize the control over the materials’ micro, meso, and macro-scopic
properties by means of structure function transfer, integration and coordination at multi-scale and
multi-level; to study the creation of new high-performance and multi-functional materials as well as
their applications in the fields of energy, health, environment and information.
Materials chemistry focuses on the precise preparation of new materials with specific
functions, accurate construction and control over the structure and properties of materials, the
crossover and integration of multi-disciplinary, the correlation between structure and properties,
and the investigation of the molecular basis of material systems using various characterization
techniques. Materials chemistry aims to address the major national needs and focuses on the
in-depth utilization of characteristic resources in our country.
Materials chemistry focuses on the development of functional materials, which have the
characteristics of electronics, optics, magnetism, acoustics and thermology, and those related to
biology, medicine and pharmacy. It needs to develop materials of wearable devices and
microelectronic system devices. Attentions should be paid to the optimization of structure design of
new advanced materials as well as their preparation process using artificial intelligence. There is
also a need to develop materials chemistry methods and principles in the processing of advanced
materials.
Energetic materials chemistry focuses on the basic issues in storage, release and application
of high-density chemical energy, and developing methods in the design and preparation of novel
energetic materials such as materials of all-nitrogen structure, ionic type and coordination type.
Energy Chemistry (B09)
Energy chemistry is a science focused on energy conversion, transmission, storage and
utilization by applying chemical principles and methods. Its basic task is to investigate new energy
conversion and storage mechanisms, design new materials, establish new theories and methods,
develop new systems, and create new devices to achieve efficient and clean utilization of chemical
energy.
Energy chemistry focuses on clean and efficient utilization of fossil resources, and
strengthens the investigation on the preparation chemistry of clean energies such as non-fossil
liquid fuels and hydrogen energy, storage materials and their efficient energy conversion.
Electrochemical energy focuses on various batteries with power and energy storage which pays
attention to the innovative research of electrolytes, battery separators and electrode materials, and
to the design and preparation of highly efficient solar cell materials, device assembly and
integration. Energy chemistry pays attention to developing materials of energy conversion and
storage and optimizing phase-changed energy storage materials. Basic chemical issues in important
energy conversion processes such as photochemical energy, thermoelectricity, photoelectricity and
Funding Scope and Instructions
29
optothermal as well as the conversion of biomass into energies and resources should also be worthy
of attention. The utilization of biomass should be focused on catalytic pyrolysis and conversion to
high quality liquid fuels.
Division IV of Chemistry
The Division supports research in the field of chemical measurement sciences,
environmental chemistry and chemical biology.
Chemical Measurement Sciences (B04)
Chemical measurement sciences aims to develop chemistry-related measurement and
analysis theories, principles, methods and techniques, and to develop related instruments, devices
and software to obtain the variation rules of the matter’s composition, distribution, structure,
properties and interactions.
The studies of chemical measurement sciences emphasize interdisciplinarity, and focus on
methodological research, instrumental creation based on new principles and development of key
technologies. The funding scope of chemical measurement sciences ranges from detection and
analysis from macroscopic to microscopic systems with high throughput, high sensitivity and high
specificity, aiming at establishing new theories, principles, methods and technologies, and
broadening the application of existing technologies in important scientific fields. The research
includes theory innovation of chemical measurement, sample treatment and separation, qualitative
and quantitative analysis, spectroscopic methodologies and applications, chemical and biological
sensing, chemical imaging, material analysis, measured data process, creation of instruments and
the development of key technologies, application of novel technology from other fields in chemical
measurement sciences, etc.
The priority funding areas for chemical measurement sciences include: processing,
separation and identification methods for complex sample; spatial and temporal resolved
spectroscopy and chemical imaging; new spectroscopic principle and technology; precise
measurement of single atom, single molecule, single cell and single particle; micro/nano analysis
and devices; structural and functional analysis of biological macromolecules; in-vivo and real-time
detection of living organisms; omics analysis; biomolecular recognition and probes; in-situ and
on-line characterization techniques; analysis technology for diagnosis of major diseases; analysis
technology under deep space, deep earth and deep sea environment; early warning, screening and
traceability of public safety; creation of miniature instruments and devices; chemical measurements
based on the big science facility, artificial intelligent in chemical measurement sciences.
Environmental Chemistry (B06)
Environmental chemistry is a science that studies the existence, characteristics, behaviors,
effects of chemical substances in environment and the principles and methods for pollution control.
It is an important branch of chemical science and the core discipline of environmental science.
Environmental chemistry faces the frontier of the discipline and the national strategic
demands, adheres to the problem orientation, and highlights foresight, innovation, crossover and
application. Major funding areas of environmental chemistry cover the following branches:
environmental pollution and analysis, pollution process and mechanism, pollution control and
remediation, environmental toxicology and health effects, environmental theory and computation,
radiochemistry and radiation chemistry, chemistry safety and security.
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
30
Facing the major issues of ecological environment protection in our country and refining the
key scientific issues, environmental chemistry encourages developing new detection technologies
and methods, and studying the environmental chemical behavior, ecological and health effects and
its prevention and control principles and methods through the combination of laboratory research,
field experiment, theoretical simulation and environmental big data. The priority funding areas
include: characterization and analysis of pollutants in complex environmental media; tracing and
behaviors of emerging contaminants on multi-media interface; new principles and technologies in
environmental catalysis; forming mechanism and control techniques of atmospheric combined
pollution; pollution process of soil and water and their control and remediation; treatment and
utilization of solid wastes; environmental exposure and health effects of new toxic pollutants;
environmental behaviors and toxicology of micro- or nano-materials; formation and control of
antibiotic resistance of microorganisms; environmental computational chemistry and big data;
prevention and control of radioactive pollution and utilization of radioactive nuclides; key chemical
issues in the prevention and control of hazardous chemicals and radiation, etc.
Chemical Biology (B07)
Chemical biology utilizes exogenous chemicals to modify or regulate the biosystem
precisely at the molecular level by interventional chemical methods or pathways. It provides new
ideas and new concepts for life science research via creating new reaction technology and new
molecular tools, and promotes the realization of visual, controllable and creative research in life
processes (or functions).
Chemical biology focuses on the processes and dynamic rules of important molecular events
in life science, and gives full play to the characteristics and creativity of chemical science. The
study mainly focuses on those areas: to achieve, explore and regulate the vital activities in real-time,
in-situ and in quantitative analysis by constructing and discovering molecular probe; to develop
new biocompatibility reactions, achieve modification and labelling of biological molecules by the
orthogonal and coupling technology and study the biological functions of biological
macromolecules such as protein, nucleic acid, polysaccharide, lipid compounds, as well as active
molecular and key ions; to discover the functional or biogenic oriented active natural products with
new structure and new skeleton, and reveal their mechanism of action and targets; to establish and
optimize small molecule compounds library and screening technology to explore and interfere the
biological process in cell, thereby to reveal unknown pathways and new vital activities of
interaction of biological molecules, promote the study of signal transduction and gene transcription
based on functional small molecules, and realize the identification of drug targets, discovery of
biomarkers and development of leading compounds, reveal the bio-function of active molecular; to
analyze the biosynthesis mechanism of substance in vital activities, and to synthesize specific target
molecule or complete special chemical reaction by using biosystem and/or biological components;
to carry out chemical assembly and simulation of complex living system, develop new theory for
chemical biology, and reveal chemical essence of life activities, on the basis of creating and
developing innovative chemical tools and techniques.
Chemical biology encourages original innovation. It preferentially supports the research in
molecular function and functional regulation with molecular probes in major biological events and
diseases; encourages the research oriented to solving biological and medical problems by chemical
means and methods; strengthens the fundamental research of chemical reaction mechanism and
chemical theory of biological system; explores the chemical origin of life and the chemical
communication of life system; promotes the interdisciplinary, integration and cooperation of
chemistry, biology and medicine.
Young scientists are encouraged to conduct independent and original research. Proposals without interdisciplinary research will not be supported.
Division V of Chemistry
The Division supports research in the field of chemical engineering and industrial chemistry.
Chemical Engineering and Industrial Chemistry (B08)
Chemical engineering and industrial chemistry is to study the flow, transfer and reaction in
the conversion processes of matter and the relationship between them. The tasks include to
recognize the transport, reaction phenomena and laws in the conversion processes of matter, and its
mechanism on the process efficiency and properties of products; to study the theories, methods and
technologies for efficient conversion of matter; to develop new technologies, new processes and
new equipment suitable for industrialization. Chemical engineering emphasizes the research on
“engineering science” and the integration with other disciplines such as chemistry, material,
biology and information, etc. Chemical engineering provides scientific basis for national major
demands such as modern manufacturing industries, energy security, strategic emerging industries
and life and health.
Chemical engineering and industrial chemistry emphasizes the research on process
engineering, system engineering, products engineering and multiscale science. In recent years,
facing the major application demands and scientific frontier, chemical engineering and industrial
chemistry encourages researchers to study the key scientific issues of application and to develop
scientific frontier theories, methods and technologies. The recent research is more focused on the
regulation, measurement and simulation in micro-/meso-structure, interface and mesoscales, the
processes intensification and scale-up rules, and the uncommon and extreme processes as well as
the relevant information and intellectualization research. The research further expands from
chemical engineering to the product engineering and integrates with new fields such as life and
health, ocean, electronic information, new materials and new energy.
Innovative research work with chemical engineering feature is encouraged. Chemical
engineering and industrial chemistry preferentially supports the research in spatial and temporal
dynamic structure at mesoscale, chemical big data and intelligent processes, system security in
chemical engineering, thermodynamics, transport and reaction under unconventional conditions,
green chemical engineering, clean transformation and high-value utilization of resources,
agriculture and marine chemical engineering, green biological manufacturing, product engineering
as well as the fundamentals of chemical science related to material, energy, resources, environment
and health, etc
