Department of Earth Sciences
Earth science studies the formation and evolution of the planetary earth system, including
geography science, Geology, Geochemistry, Geophysics and Space Physics, Atmospheric Science,
Marine Science, and Environmental Geosciences, and other related interdisciplinary subjects.
Through the support of General Programs, the Department encourages original innovations,
expands scientific frontiers, matches national demands, pushes disciplinary crosses, and lays a
comprehensive and solid foundation for the balanced, coordinated, and sustainable development of
all earth sciences disciplines. In 2021, the selection of General Programs will follow the principles:
(1) The innovation and academic value of the program; (2) The research ability of applicant; (3)
The rationality of the idea and the clarity of the scientific issue in the application; (4) Research
basis and conditions. Program proposal selection attaches great importance to basic and traditional
disciplines, and focuses on primary data accumulation; effectively enhances the research in weak
and “endangered” disciplines, and promotes the fields development of relatively weak in China but
predominant in the world; strengthens the research in frontier disciplines, and encourages
disciplinary cross, integration and infiltration, especially the intersection of earth sciences and other
disciplines; maintains the international status of dominant disciplines and fields in China; supports
the development of sub-disciplines closely related to experiment, observation, data integration and
simulation. Pay attention to the accumulation of research work while advocating innovative
research. For the General Program proposal applying for continued support, which have had a good
accumulation in previous studies and a high-quality completion of recent research, preferential
support will be given under the same conditions. Applicants are required to address the relation
between the proposed research work and their accomplished programs. Based on the exploratory,
unpredictable, and long-term characteristics of basic research, general program encourages
scientists to face the most challenging scientific issues and actively carry out exploratory research.
One of the most important goals of the NSFC is to nurture and support excellent young
scientist continuously and steadily. The Young Scientists Fund mainly plays the role of
“cultivation”, shifts the funding focus forward, and provides timely funding for early-career young
scholars who are about to independently carry out basic scientific research. The Young Scientist
Fund supports them in the critical period of the individual development to help them grow up as
quickly as possible.
In 2020, the Department received 8,678 General Program applications with 851 applicant
institutions in total; of these, 2,000 were funded with a funding cost (direct cost, and hereinafter) of
1,162.76 million yuan in total and 581,400 yuan in average, and the average funding rate is 23.05%.
Among the funded projects in 2020, 1,315 (65.75%) were from colleges and universities, and 664
(33.20%) were from scientific institutes. The PIs of 1,511 projects (75.55%) were under 45 years
old. There were 131 inter-department and 268 interdisciplinary projects funded. The average
funding cost for General Programs in 2021 is expected to keep the same as that in 2020.
In 2020, the Department received 8,321 Young Scientist Fund applications with 1,031
applicant institutions in total; of these, 5,431 (65.27%) were from colleges and universities, and
2,536 (30.48%) were from scientific institutes. 1,730 were funded with a funding cost of 411,12
million yuan in total and 237,600 yuan in average, and the average funding rate is 20.79%. Among
the funded projects in 2020, 1,145 (66.18%) were from colleges and universities, and 553 were
applied from scientific institutes.
In 2020, the Department received 1,301 Fund for Less Developed Regions applications with
168 applicant institutions in total; of these, 1,156 (88.85%) were from colleges and universities,
and 107 (8.22%) were from scientific institutes. 204 were funded with a direct cost of 72,12 million
yuan in total and 353,500 yuan in average, and the average funding rate is 15.68%. Among the
funded projects in 2020, 187 (91.67%) were applied from colleges and universities, and 11 (5.39%)
were applied from scientific institutes. The average funding cost for fund for Less Developed
Regions in 2021 is expected to keep the same as that in 2020.
Notes:
(1) In 2021, the Department will carry out a new trial system of two-grade
application code. Please carefully read the application code list and the
instruction in this Guide, and select the application code well matched the content
of the application. The filled-in application code should generally be refined to the
secondary application code.
(2) Please carefully read and abide by the requirements of scientific integrity
Funding Scope and Instructions
53
in this Guide. Do not list academic papers at the submission stage in the
application.
(3) The application to the Department of Earth Sciences involving ethics
should refer to the related regulations of the Department of Life Sciences and the
Department of Health Sciences in this Guide.
Funding in Department of Earth Sciences in 2020
Unit: 10,000 yuan
Division
General Program Young Scientists Fund Fund for Less Development
Regions
Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%) Projects Direct
cost
Success
rate (%)
I Geography 455 25,156 21.98 417 9,992 20.81 77 2,695 15.75
II
Geology 345 21,131 24.50 311 7,392 20.79 21 735 15.22
Geochemistry 82 5,000 24.19 67 1,520 20.94 9 315 15.52
III
Geophysics
and Space
Physics
226 13,379 25.68 158 3,728 20.82 9 315 15.25
Environmental
Geoscience 456 26,108 21.12 433 10,280 20.79 70 2,522 15.73
IV Marine
Science 243 14,250 23.55 200 4,760 20.75 7 245 15.91
V Atmospheric
Science 193 11,252 24.43 144 3,440 20.72 11 385 16.18
Total or average 2,000 116,276 23.05 1,730 41,112 20.79 204 7,212 15.68
Direct cost per project 58.14 — 35.35
Division I of Earth Sciences
Geography (D01)
Funding of this Discipline is available for research on geography science. This mainly
includes Physical Geography (i.e., D0101 Geomorphology, D0102 Hydrology and Climatology,
D0103 Biogeography and Soil Geography, D0104 Environmental Geography and Disaster
Geography, D0105 Landscape Geography and Integrated Physical Geography, D0106 Cryospheric
Science, D0107 Geographical Environmental Change and Civilization Evolution), Human
Geography (i.e., D0108 Economic Geography, D0109 Urban Geography and Rural Geography,
D0110 Human Geography, D0111 Land Science and Natural Resource Management, D0112
Regional Sustainable Development), Geographic Information Science (i.e., D0113 Remote Sensing,
D0114 Geographic Information Science, D0115 Cartography and Geodesy, D0116 Geographic Big
Data and Spatial Intelligence), and approaches and tools for observations, simulation and analysis
in Geographical Science (i.e., D0117 Geographical Observation and Simulation Technology).
The geography science focuses on the spatial distribution, temporal evolution and regional
features of the physical and human elements, geographical information and geocomplexes.
The object of the geography science research is the earth surface system, which is formed
from the interactions and interpenetrations of the lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, biosphere,
cryosphere, and anthroposphere. The earth surface system (also known as the
“water-soil-air-biology-human” complex) should be considered in its entirety in the geography
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
54
science research.
The core of the geography science is the interrelationships between human and nature, and
their interaction mechanisms in the earth surface system. Owing to the comprehensive,
intersectional, and regional characteristics, the geography science must be studied systematically
and comprehensively from the spatio-temporal scale-dependent multi-dimensional and dynamic
perspectives.
This Discipline encourages the applications of comprehensive, exploratory, and prospective
projects, urges the earth surface process research using the theories, methods and technologies of
mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, and information science, and promotes interdisciplinary
frontier research on national priorities such as “Ecological Civilization Construction”, “The Belt
and Road Initiative”, and “Rural Revitalization”.
In response to the changes in the scientific research paradigm caused by the big data and
artificial intelligence, the Discipline encourages the research on the geographical intelligence
theories, methods and technologies combining big data, artificial intelligence and geographical
issues, aiming to enhance our understanding and prediction capabilities of geographical issues and
to establish the scientific paradigm and technology system for the spatio-temporal big data analysis.
In front of the frontier sciences such as comprehensive research on terrestrial surface system,
global change and sustainable development, the Discipline encourages to focus on the development,
reuse and integration of the geographical observation technologies and simulation methods, and
promotes the construction of the scientific research facilities such as the comprehensive
geographical modeling and simulation systems, and the decision support system for sustainable
development, realizing the integration of the geographical data, geographical mechanism,
geographical pattern, and geographic decision-making.
Division II of Earth Sciences
Geology (D02)
Geology is the discipline studying the composition, structure, and evolution of the Earth
(planets). Geology aims to disclose the structure and composition of the Earth, to explain the
mechanism controlling the transition of Earth materials, to elucidate the Earth’s environment and
life evolution recorded in these materials, to reveal the agents and processes which modify the
Earth’s surface, to apply the knowledge of geology to explore the utilizable energy, mineral and
water resources, to uncover the relationship between geological processes, life evolution and
human activities, to protect the Earth environment, and to prevent (or give early warning) and
mitigate geo-hazards.
The development of geology is based on the advancement of the fundamental theory and
technology. The theory of plate tectonic has brought about revolutionary changes to the
understanding of the Earth. The disclosure of the complexity of continental dynamics and the
tectonic schemes predating the plate systems are raising new themes for the advancement of plate
tectonic theory. Due to the emerging new framework of Earth system science, the correlation
between deep processes and surface impacts of the Earth has become the frontier for geological
sciences. The enhancement of abilities to obtain and to analyze data has become a major driving
force for promoting the development of geological sciences. The implementation of high precision,
in-situ and real-time analytical methods for the composition and structure of Earth materials has
enhanced the capability to constrain the composition and evolution of the Earth. The developments
of geophysical exploration, space-based observation, and geological drilling technology had
Funding Scope and Instructions
55
increased the integrity and accuracy of understanding of the Earth’s structure. New high-tech
approaches such as information systems, the internet of things and photoelectron technology have
helped to realize real-time monitoring of crustal movements, earthquakes, and volcanic activities.
The reproduction and prediction of important geological processes have been made possible
through the development of computer simulation and high-temperature/high-pressure experiments.
This geological program encourages basic researches on fundamental theory based on field
and site observations by using the abundant materials and data recently acquired and accumulated
by geology-related agencies and institutions. Multidisciplinary approaches, such as the application
of theory, technology and methodology of mathematics, physics, chemistry, bioscience, and
computer science, are encouraged to study geological issues. International collaborations are also
advocated for promoting geological researches and theory advancement with a global scientific
view.
Geochemistry (D03)
Geochemistry is the science to investigate the chemical compositions, evolutionary
processes, and interaction of different spheres of the Earth, and the distribution, state, migration,
transformation, cycle, and fate of the substances of the Earth surface system affected by
anthropogenic and natural forcing, both in modern times and in Earth’s history. It is based on the
principles of element geochemistry and isotope geochemistry, and makes use of the tools of modern
analytical techniques, theoretical calculations, and experimental simulations.
Specifically, the research fields of geochemistry include the processes, mechanisms, impacts
and regulations of the chemical compositions, chemical reaction and chemical evolution of celestial
bodies (planets), rocks, sediments, soil, waters, atmosphere, ore bodies, oil and gas, living
organisms, volatiles in Earth’s interior and surface, etc.
The characteristics of modern geochemistry studies include: (1) In the field of research
methods and techniques, dynamically quantitative simulation has gradually replaced statically
qualitative descriptions. The advantages of in-situ micro-analytical techniques and high
temperature and high-pressure experiments have been valued. The rule of four-dimensional
time-space evolution has been emphasized. The development and application of new isotopic
systems have been paid great attention. Combined with new methods of big data and artificial
intelligence, the multi-dimensional information of geochemical data is deeply mined. (2) In the
field of solid geochemistry, the research topics have expanded from the chemical composition,
structures, and reactions of the materials in Earth’s interior to the interactions of different Earth’s
layers and the corresponding effects of resources and environment. The relationship between these
interactions and plate tectonics and global change has drawn much attention. The research objects
have expanded from the Earth itself to celestial bodies and other cosmic materials. (3) In the field
of Earth surface system geochemistry, it pays attention not only to the reconstruction of geologic
events on long time scales, but also to the descriptions of physical, chemical, and biological
processes on short time scales and the prediction and simulation of environment changes in the
future.
Geochemistry is not only a basic discipline to cognize the Earth and the universe, but also
an applied discipline to solve the problems faced by human to survive and develop, such as natural
resources, ecological environment, and geologic hazards. A new application code scheme of
geochemical discipline has been proposed in 2020, which has a framework comprising three layers:
fundamental theories, analytical techniques, and applications. The objectives of optimizing the
codes within the applications area are to develop a theoretical system, expand applications and
enhance the use of geochemistry for national needs, in order to achieve “in line with the internal
logic and structure of knowledge system, realize the unity of knowledge level and application
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
56
field”.
Division III of Earth Sciences
Geophysics and Space Physics (D04)
Geophysics, space physics, and geodesy are disciplines which are based on the theories and
methods of physics and related disciplines, and combine observation and experimental means, to
understand the basic laws of the space structure and evolution of the Earth and planets, to explore
the internal resources of the Earth and planets, and to reveal the characteristics of the Earth and
space environment, and draw out the variation of human livable residential environment.
Geophysics, through direct observation and experimental and theoretical studies on the basic
geophysical fields of the Earth and planets, is to reveal the internal structures of the Earth and
planets and their components and dynamic processes, to effectively understand the mechanism of
earthquake and geological disasters and mineralization and accumulation, to develop the
foundation of new methods and technologies of geophysical data collection, processing, inversion
and interpretation, to provide theoretical and scientific support for resource exploration,
engineering exploration, disaster prevention and reduction.
Space physics is based on space borne or ground-based detection and experiment,
theoretical research, and numerical simulation, to reveal physical phenomena and their variation
laws of upper atmosphere, ionosphere, magnetosphere of the Earth and planets, and interactions of
solar atmosphere, heliosphere, and interplanetary space, to provide scientific support for astronautic
activities, communication, and navigation.
Geodesy, through the study of geodetic theory, with the help of space and ground geometry
and physical quantity observation, is to determine the precise location of the surface of the earth
and its outer space point, to accurately measure the geometry and deformation filed and gravity
field, the motion state of mobile carrier and the shape and deformation of large buildings
(structures), to provide space datum, elevation datum, gravity datum and time datum guarantee for
the national economy and national defense.
Geophysics and space physics attach importance to basic theoretical research, experiment,
and observation. According to the development trend of earth science and space science, encourage
will be focused on core scientific issues of deep earth, deep sea, deep space, and the Earth system
(“three deep and one system”), more efforts will be given to new growth and pioneering studies, as
well as the deep cross integration with other disciplines. In order to provide technical support for
the development of earth science and space science, attention will be given to develop new
technologies and methods and detection instruments.
Environmental Geosciences (D07)
With the rapid development of the economy and society, environmental problems including
shortage of water and land resources, aggravation of environmental pollution, degradation of
ecosystems, and frequent occurrence of disasters are becoming more and more severe and
threatening the ecosystem and sustainable development of human society. The goal of developing
research in environmental geosciences is to solve various environmental problems in a scientific
way.
Environmental geosciences is the subject that studies the Earth’s surface system. Based on
the principles of geological and environmental sciences, interdisciplinary approaches are often
adopted to investigate the pedosphere, the hydrosphere, the surface lithosphere, the atmosphere,
Funding Scope and Instructions
57
and the biosphere; and to investigate their interactions including physical, chemical, and biological
processes and the coupling mechanisms. The subject is also to reveal the changes of geological
environment and the rules of the occurrence and development of geohazards, to establish the
systematic methodology for risk assessment, control and management, to investigate the regional
environmental quality, to predict and respond to environmental changes, to reveal the
multiphase/interphase behaviors and effects of pollutants and the underlying mechanisms, to
determine environmental baseline and elucidate fundamental scientific questions regarding
environmental restoration and ecosystem rehabilitation.
According to the NSFC’s guidance on the subject reformation and optimization to deal with
the challenges from the developments of theories, technologies and subject paradigm, the codes for
application are adjusted, and the subject structure is established, including four fundamental
subjects, i.e., soil science, environmental water science, environmental atmosphere science and
environmental biology; four interdisciplinary subjects, i.e., engineering geoenvironment and
geohazard, environmental geology, environmental geochemistry, and ecotoxicology; four
cutting-edge areas, i.e., environmental behaviors and effects of pollutants, environmental and
health risks, quaternary environments, and environmental information and forecast. New
technologies and methodologies are pivotal supports for the development of the Environmental
Geosciences. Regional environmental quality/safety and environmental protection/sustainability are
the primary national needs and interests. Due to the large number of applications under Soil
Science and to advance the subject development, the second order of application codes are further
divided into three categories, i.e., fundamental soil science, soil fertility and erosion, and
environmental soil science. Based on the features and advantages that serve the national interests,
the Discipline focuses on environmental studies relevant to pollution, ecology, hazards, and health.
For national strategic interests, the discipline encourages novel, interdisciplinary, and
cutting-edge researches to answer fundamental scientific questions; encourages new theories, ideas,
methodologies, and technologies for innovative application and to nurse the growth of the subject;
encourages scientific researches focusing on sustainable and habitable Earth system, which lead to
major breakthroughs and enable the flourish of the discipline.
Division IV of Earth Sciences
Marine Science (D06)
The scope of funding includes marine science and polar science.
Marine science is a knowledge system that studies the natural phenomena and changing
rules of the ocean and its interaction with atmosphere, lithosphere, biosphere, pedosphere, and
cryosphere, as well as the development, utilization, and protection of the ocean. It is a
comprehensive discipline including both the study of the Earth’s natural processes (e.g., physical,
chemical, biological, and geological processes) and the study of marine social attributes (e.g.,
resources, environment, economy, national defense, culture, international relations, etc.).
Meanwhile, marine science is increasingly integrated with marine engineering technology and
marine space development and utilization. It has to be recognized that marine science has multiple
attributes such as science, technology, and sociology, and there is an increasingly trend of
large-span cross-discipline study guided by basic scientific issues. However, there is still
insufficient attention to the comprehensive characteristics of marine science. It is urgent to
strengthen the interdisciplinary research and to improve the cognitive level of marine science.
Marine science is a data-intensive discipline based on observations, and the promotion of its
National Natural Science Fund Guide to Programs 2021
58
academic thoughts and research abilities depends on long-term observation and data accumulation.
To meet the demands of research projects in ocean observation, NSFC implemented the Ship-time
Sharing Project (NSFC Open Research Cruise, NORC). For those applications that require field
sampling and observations, they need elaborate the cruise plan and observation content during the
project implementation and combined with the technical route in the proposal. The guidelines for
the Ship-time Sharing Project will be announced separately, and please pay close attention to the
relevant notice from the Department.
Polar science is a discipline studying various natural phenomena, including the processes
and changing rules peculiarly in polar region, as well as its interaction with other components of
the earth system. It includes polar space, polar weather and climate, polar ocean, polar ecosystem,
polar biogeochemical process, polar resources, polar cryosphere, polar solid earth, polar
observation and detection technology, polar engineering and environment, relationship of
environment change among the three polars of the earth, and polar protection and utilization. The
development of polar science would deepen the understanding of the interaction of the earth’s
sphere and enhance the ability of polar protection and utilization.
For the past few years, polar science in China has been facing important development
opportunities; meanwhile significant progress has been achieved in international polar research.
However, it is still the weakest area in earth science. Aiming at the key scientific issues of current
global change and sustainable development, the main development trend of earth science is to focus
on the integrated research for the characteristics and interactions of the different spheres of the
earth system, as well as the interactions between the polar and other regions on the Earth.
In order to promote the research level of marine and polar sciences in China as well as to
achieve continuous support and leadership of cutting-edge research in marine and polar science, it
is necessary to improve the scientific funding structure, and expand cross-disciplinary integration,
as well as promote the building of research talents. It is encouraged that carrying out marine and
polar research with coupled nature and social scientific aspects. To deepen the understanding of the
Earth system, we need integrate the researches of earth process and the resource and environmental
effects. It is necessary to provide stable and reliable support for the major research subjects of
marine and polar science and accelerate sharing the information and data of marine scientific
investigation. The research aspects include physical, chemical, biological, ecological, and
geological processes of the oceans and polar regions; interaction between marine systems and
climate change; interaction between human activities and marine space utilization; environmental
protection of marine and polar regions; processes of marine disaster and its prevention and
mitigation; formation, evolution, development and utilization of marine energy resources;
ecological security and sustainability of marine biological resources; environmental protection of
marine and polar region, land and sea coordination and global sustainable development; remote
sensing and information sciences; observation and detection technology; marine and polar
engineering and its environmental effects.
Division V of Earth Sciences
Atmospheric Science (D05)
The scope of funding: meteorology, atmospheric physics, atmospheric chemistry and the
atmospheric environment, and other branch disciplines, as well as their corresponding supporting
technologies and development fields.
Atmospheric science is the study of various phenomena and their changes in Earth’s
Funding Scope and Instructions
59
atmosphere and other planets’ atmospheres so as to serve the mankind. The atmosphere is one of
the most active spheres of the Earth system. Its changes are affected and controlled by other
spheres of the system and celestial bodies such as the Sun. At the same time, changes in the
atmosphere can directly or indirectly impact oceans, the terrestrial surface, the cryosphere, as well
as the ecosystem of the Earth. The atmosphere plays an important role in the interactions among
different spheres of the Earth system and regulates the functions of the Earth system and its
interactions with the other spheres. Besides studying dynamical, physical, chemical, and biological
processes within the atmosphere, atmospheric science currently involves comprehensive
investigations into the mechanisms underlying atmospheric variations and their interactions with
the hydrosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere, biosphere, human activities, and global climate; the
regularity of weather, the climate system and theories of climate change and its prediction and
projection methods; technologies and measures affecting weather and climate; the impact of human
activities on weather, climate, and environmental systems; and the impact of weather, climate, and
environmental system changes on human society. Attention should also be paid to studying the
occurrence, variation, mechanisms, and predictions of various disastrous events of weather, climate,
and the environment; studying the issues of global climate and environmental changes and their
impacts, adaptation, and mitigation; comprehensive understanding, integration, systematic
observation and modeling of various processes; and interdisciplinary studies which could lay the
scientific foundation for improving the quality of life and the sustainable development of society.
In 2021, the Atmospheric Division will continue to solicit proposals for exploratory, original
and frontier studies in the following areas: the various phenomena, processes, and mechanisms of
the atmosphere, and physical, chemical, and biological processes taking place in the atmosphere,
and exchanges and interactions of energy and momentum between the atmosphere and other
spheres by applying novel ideas, methods, and advanced observation technologies to study synoptic
meteorology, climatology, atmospheric dynamics, hydrometeorology, atmospheric physics,
atmospheric chemistry, the atmospheric environment, atmospheric in situ observations and remote
sensing, the boundary layer, stratosphere, and mesosphere; climate change, extreme weather and
major climatic events; new theories and methods for weather forecasting, climate prediction,
assessment of various complex disasters; new theories and methods for numerical modeling and
data assimilation; basic research on satellite and radar meteorology; analysis and applied studies on
the data acquired from major scientific experiments and scientific initiatives that have been
conducted and ongoing ones, as well as from large observation networks established in China and
around the world; the principles and methods of meteorological observation, development of
meteorological instruments, data analysis, and applications; interdisciplinary studies of such key
national interests as defense, agriculture, energy, transportation, forestry, hydrology, health,
economy, ecology, among others, as well as national strategic needs such as the Belt and Road
Initiatives and support of major engineering projects, serving the livelihood and sustainable
development of society.
“D0509 Atmospheric Observation Techniques”, “D0510 Atmospheric Data and
Information Techniques”, “D0511 Atmospheric Numerical Model Development”, and “D0512
Earth System Model Development” are suitable for the research of new technologies and
methods in the field of atmospheric science. The project application based on the existing
technology for theory and application research is not suitable for selecting such application
codes