B. Research themes related to the 2022 Generic Call for Proposals
The scientific themes are described in the 2022 Generic Call for Proposals with the associated keywords,
associated ERC codes and where applicable the associated SDG.
"Environmental Sciences" field
Theme A.1. Solid earth and fluid envelopes
Theme A.2. Living earth
22 Act on recovery of biodiversity, nature and landscapes (Act 2016-1087 of 8 August 2016) and its implementation
decree pertaining to access to genetic resources and sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation (Implementation
Decree No. 2017-848 of 9 May 2017).
23 http://www.sgdsn.gouv.fr/missions/protection-du-potentiel-scientifique-et-technique-de-la-nation/
(CIR no. 3415/SGDSN/AIST/PST of 7 November 2012).
Updated version 1.1a – 12 October 2021 p. 16
Theme A.3. Animal, photosynthetic organism and micro-organism biology
Theme A.4. Food and food systems
“Materials Science and Engineering” field
Theme B.1. Physics of condensed matter and diluted matter
Theme B.2. Polymers, composites, chemical physics of soft matter
Theme B.3. Metallic and inorganic materials
Theme B.4. Engineering and process sciences
Theme B.5. Molecular chemistry
Theme B.6. Analytical chemistry, theoretical chemistry and modelling
"Life Sciences" field
Theme C.1. Biochemistry and chemistry of living organisms
Theme C.2. Characterisation of structures and structure-function relationships of biological
macromolecules
Theme C.3. Genetics, genomics and RNA
Theme C.4. Cellular biology, developmental biology and evolution
Theme C.5. Physiology and physiopathology
Theme C.6. Immunology, infectiology and inflammation
Theme C.7. Molecular and cellular neuroscience - Developmental neurobiology
Theme C.8. Integrative and cognitive neuroscience
Theme C.9. Translational health research
Theme C.10. Biomedical innovation
Theme C.11. Regenerative medicine
“Humanities and Social Sciences” field
Theme D.1. Individuals, companies, markets, finance, management
Theme D.2. Institutions and organisations, legal frameworks and standards, governance,
international relations
Theme D.3. Contemporary societies: stat of, dynamics and transformations
Theme D.4. Cognition, behaviour, language
Theme D.5. Arts, languages, literatures, philosophies
Theme D.6. Studies of the past, heritage, cultures
Theme D.7. Societies and territories in transition
"Digital Sciences" field
Theme E.1. Foundations of digital technology: information technology, automation, signal
processing
Theme E.2. Artificial intelligence and data science
Updated version 1.1a – 12 October 2021 p. 17
Theme E.3. Software science and engineering - Multi-purpose communication networks, high-
performance infrastructures
Theme E.4. Interaction - Robotics
Theme E.5. Digital models, simulation, applications
Theme E.6. Quantum technologies
“Mathematics and its interactions” field
Theme F.1. Mathematics
"Sub-atomic physics, Earth and Universe Sciences" fields
Theme G.1. Planetary science, structure and history of the Earth
Theme G.2. Sub-atomic physics and astrophysics
Cross-cutting fields
Science of Sustainability
Theme H.1. Science of Sustainability
One Health
Theme H.2. Contaminants, ecosystems and health
Theme H.3. Infectious diseases and environment
Theme H.4. Public health, health and societies
Ecological and environmental transition
Theme H.5. Methodologies, instrumentations, sensors and solutions ecological transition
Theme H.6. Dynamics of socio-ecosystems and of their components
Theme H.7. Bio-economy, from biomass to uses: chemistry, materials, systematic approaches
and processes
Energy transition
Theme H.8. Basic energy science
Theme H.9. Sustainable, clean, safe and efficient energy
Technological transitions
Theme H.10. Nano-objects and functional nanomaterials, interfaces
Theme H.11. Sensors, imagers and instrumentation
Theme H.12. Micro- and nanotechnologies for information and communication processing
Theme H.13. Health technologies
Digital transformation
Theme H.14. Interfaces: mathematics, digital sciences - biology, health
Theme H.15. Interfaces: digital sciences - humanities and social sciences
Theme H.16. Interfaces: mathematics, digital sciences - Earth system and environmental
sciences
Transformations of socio-technical systems
Theme H.17. Global security, resilience and crisis management, cybersecurity
Updated version 1.1a – 12 October 2021 p. 18
Theme H.18. Transport and mobility, constructions in urban and peri-urban areas
Theme H.19. Industry and factory of the future: people, organisations, technologies