The French Embassy in the United States and the FACE Foundation launched the Thomas Jefferson Fund in 2017, which aims to encourage and support the collaboration of young French and American researchers, and to promote innovative joint research projects.
Priority is given to the most innovative projects including significant transatlantic mobility, collaborative research activities, joint organization of workshops and conferences, joint publication of articles, and participation of young researchers (PhD students). The grants cover mobility costs between France and the United States (travel, accommodation and meals), a portion of the cost of joint conferences, and joint publication costs.

Objectives

    Support the collaboration of the most promising young French and American researchers,
    Promote innovative joint research projects to address the major challenges of the 21st century
    Encourage cutting-edge multidisciplinary research projects of the highest quality and seek to support emerging collaborations involving a team of young researchers,
    Foster forward-looking collaborative research in the humanities and social sciences, science, technology, engineering and mathematics, and science for society that addresses the most pressing global challenges.

Beneficiaries, eligibility and applications

Applications must be submitted jointly by a French researcher and an American researcher in the early stages of his or her career, with a permanent or semi-permanent position in a research or higher education institution in France or the United States (post-doctoral fellow, lecturer, research fellow, assistant or associate professor).
The Thomas Jefferson Fund supports cutting-edge projects of great originality where an initial investment can make a substantial difference by placing American and French partners at the forefront of a new field of investigation.

Interested researchers can read the details of the call for proposals online: https://face-foundation.org/thomas-jefferson-fund/

Procedure

The Thomas Jefferson Fund issues an annual call for proposals. The disciplinary fields covered by the Fund are as follows
Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mapping (STEM)
Science for Society (STEM-SSH interdisciplinary projects)

Each grant will be for a maximum of $20,000 over two years to be divided equally between the French and U.S. teams. Partner investigators are encouraged to obtain in-kind or cash co-funding from their institution or other funding sources to cover other types of expenses necessary for the successful execution of their joint research project.

If you have any questions, please contact the Thomas Jefferson Fund team: thomasjeffersonfund@frenchculture.org