Materials (MAT) Panel

    Smart composites
    High strength steels
    Advanced magnetic and electro ceramic materials
    Development of wear, abrasion, erosion, low friction corrosion and oxidation resistance coatings
    Stealth materials for ships/submarines
    Acoustic signature management materials
    Anti-fouling coatings
    Microbial fuel cells
    High productivity welding technologies
    Polymer & nano-composites for energy storage devices
    Functional polymers & coatings for marine applications
    Smart materials for naval applications

Hydrodynamics (HYDRO) Panel

    Theoretical and Computational hydrodynamics
    Free surface aspects. To develop state-of-the art computing methods for solution of a variety of linear and non linear free-surface flow problems.
    Ship motions and wave loads.
    Wave and wake dynamics.
    Hydrodynamics in design.
    Propulsion hydrodynamics and hydro-acoustics. To develop analysis and computational methods over two and 3-D lifting surfaces.
    Cavitations and bubble flow.
    Viscous ship hydrodynamics to determine viscous flow over submerged bodies.
    Frontier experimental techniques.
    Special areas like water-entry and hydrodynamic impact.
    Shallow water hydrodynamics, bluff-body hydrodynamics.

Ocean Environment(OE) Panel

    Ocean/Atmosphere Monitoring System
        Development and deployment of moored met-ocean buoys.
        Development of algorithms for retrieval of met-ocean parameters from satellite data.
        Validation of satellite products using data from buoys.
    Now cast/Forecast System
        Development and implementation of improved models of the ocean and the lower atmosphere.
        Studies, with ocean models and couples ocean atmosphere models related to generation of initial conditions, and to boundary condition (including assimilation studies).
    Process Studies
        Field campaigns and theoretical/modeling work related to the physics of air-sea coupling over the Indian Ocean.
        Studies on mixing and dispersion in the coastal ocean.
        Studies on ocean-atmosphere processes in the Coastal region on time scales of hour to day.

Sonar & Signal Behaviour (SSB) Panel

    Underwater Communication & Sensors
    Underwater Acoustic Communication
    Underwater Image processing
    Ocean Acoustics and modelling
    Sonar related materials & signal processing techniques
    Environment Modelling
    Underwater signal detection, tracking & classification of targets
    Near Field Acoustic characterization and Systems
    Seabed array for underwater surveillance

Marine System (MAR) Panel

    Underwater sensors inclusive of their calibration devices, Instrumentation and control system.
    UAVS
    Deep sea moorings, tether cables, cable winches with slip rings (including underwater slip rings) for electronic and optical communications.
    Ship based machinery and systems, thrusters, dynamic positioning systems with their control software.
    Special propulsion systems and futuristic marine engines and power plants.
    Hyperbaric research and development of mechanical and electrical subsystems / components like bearings, seals, electric and hydraulic motors and their valve systems for deep sea applications.
    Diving and underwater habitat.
    Ocean energy, batteries for underwater applications, neutrally buoyant tether.
    Marine risers and their deployment systems.
    Stealth technology.

Scientific Computing (SC) Panel

    Parallel & Distributed Computing
    Data Management and Visualization
    Computational vision and Computational Image Processing
    Design of Embedded system
    Geometric algorithms.
    Randomized and approximation algorithms.
    Artificial Intelligence (AI) related to Naval applications

Hydro-Vibro-Acoustic (HVA) Panel

    Ocean Wave guide acoustics
    Fluid- Structure interaction of composite propellers
    Acoustic Scattering and Radiation by Ships and Submarines
    Flow induced noise and its interaction with structures
    Sound Radiation, Self Noise of Sonar domes, torpedoes etc.; Vibration control
    Low frequency vibration of engine foundation /mounts; vibration control
    Shock response of hull structure; shock hardening strategies