Life Support & Biomedical Devices (LSBD) Panel

    Versatile fabrics as technical textiles for protective clothing.
    Brain computer interface sensor & instrumentation for the relevance of military application.
    Neuro exoskeleton technologies for soldier locomotion enhancement and increase load carrying capacity.
    Combat medical support technologies / devices development.

Soldier Health & Drug Development (SH&DD) Panel

    Pre hospital care of combat casualty.
    Traumatic brain injury.
    Radiation countermeasures.

Physiology of Extreme Environment & Behavioral Sciences (PEE&BS) Panel

    Mechanism and strategies for rapid acclimatization to extreme environmental conditions, including high & extreme altitude, desert, microgravity, hyperbaria amongst others.
    Next generation genetic screening tools, diagnostics including biosensors, for maladies at high/extreme altitude and other extreme environmental conditions.
    Development of Psychological tests i.e. Intelligence, Aptitude and Personality tests for the selection and placement of Armed Forces Personnel.
    Study the develop psychological tests/tools to Assess as well as training modules for the enhancement of Psychological well being, resilience, combat stress management, motivation and moral, attitude, job satisfaction, leadership effectiveness, mental health and values of the armed forces personnel.

Biotechnology and Bioremediation (BTB) Panel

    Surveillance of diseases caused by biothreat agents
    Vaccine and post exposure therapies for biothreat or chemical warfare agents
    Host-pathogen interaction of biothreat agents in natural host
    Herbal and chemical repellents for insect vectors and pests
    Metagenomic and metaproteomic approaches for identification of microbial pathogens.

Food Science, Agriculture & Bio-prospecting (FAB) Panel

    Light weight operational rations.
    High altitude agriculture
    Bio-mediated alternate fuel technologies.
    Vector-vector borne diseases
    Bioremediation
    Products & technologies for soldier support during jungle operations
    Herbal based pharmaceutical products and technologies.