Fisheries Division


Vision

‘Fish for All for Ever’

Mission

Sustainable growth of Indian fisheries and aquaculture by interfacing research, education and extension resulting in a proper fit between the human needs and the habitat, with an important role in global fisheries.

Mandate

    To formulate and supervise council’s policies and work pertaining to fisheries research.
    To coordinate and stimulate operational research programmes and demonstration in different fisheries systems.
    To serve as knowledge repository and clearing house in fisheries sector.

Priority Areas

    Development and up-gradation of databases of finfishes, crustaceans, molluscs and other important aquatic organisms including their molecular aspects.
    Mapping potential fishery resources of the country using geospatial data and remote sensing for generating computer-based models on fishery management in open waters.
    Development of sustainable management models for open water fisheries resources in the context of changing resource structure and climatic conditions.
    Developing/upscaling of seed production and grow-out technologies of important species of commercial and conservation value of freshwater brackishwater and marine ecosystems.
    Species and system diversification of commercially important fish species for freshwater, brackishwater and marine aquaculture.
    Stock improvement of commercially important finfish and shellfish species  for growth, disease resistance and other traits of importance through selective breeding and marker-assisted selection.
    Breeding and rearing of ornamental finfishes and shellfishes of freshwater and marine origin.
    Development of cost-effective and nutritive diets for different life stages of diversified fish and shellfish species, including ornamental species.
    Undertaking aquatic animal disease surveillance for preparedness against disease outbreak.
    Development of diagnostics, vaccines and disease management measures for current and emerging diseases.
    Development of genomic resources for important fish and shellfish species through whole genome sequencing and transcriptome analysis.
    Water budgeting in inland aquaculture.
    Development of eco-friendly fishing craft and gear for responsible fisheries.
    Post-harvest value addition from fish and fish wastes
    Development of industrial nutraceutical products from aquatic organisms
    Reduction of harvest and post-harvest losses of fish through mitigation measures.
    Development of fish farming technology for inland saline and sodic areas.
    Human resource development through higher education and training in different aspects of fisheries and aquaculture.
    Policy advisory for addressing various issues of fisheries and aquaculture.
