Agricultural Engineering Division

The division is mandated to plan, coordinate, and monitor R&D programmes and serve as an information repository in Agricultural Engineering. It is involved in development and demonstration of technologies related to mechanization of production and post-production agriculture using conventional and non-conventional energy sources and includes mechanization of irrigation and drainage activities; and post-harvest and value addition of agricultural products and by products. It has five institutes, six AICRPs, two AINPs and four CRPs under its jurisdiction.

Vision

To make Indian agriculture sustainable, profitable and competitive enterprise through engineering interventions of farm mechanization, value addition and energy management in production and post-harvest operations.

Mission

To develop and introduce need-based and region-specific engineering technologies to achieve sustainable enhanced productivity and profitability of different farming systems.

Mandate

To plan, coordinate, and monitor R&D programs and serve as an information repository in Agricultural Engineering

Organizational Structure

Agricultural Engineering Division Organogram

 

Thrust Areas  

    Development of precision machinery and strategies for carrying out timely and efficient agricultural operations in irrigated, rain-fed and hill agriculture, horticulture, livestock and fisheries production.
    Increasing work efficiency for human, animal and mechanical systems and reduction of occupational hazards in agricultural operations.
    Energy management and utilization of conventional and non-conventional energy sources in agricultural production and processing activities.
    Utilization of surplus agricultural residues for decentralized power generation.
    Reduction of post-harvest losses, value addition to agricultural produce, processing and utilization of by-products.
    Application of robotics and drones in production agriculture, electromagnetic waves in food processing.
    Post-harvest management of natural resins and gums; and extraction, processing and value addition of natural fibers 
    Creation of functional/nutraceuticals foods and intelligent packaging systems.
