Intellectual Property &Technology Management (IP&TM) Unit

Assimilation of IPR dimensions in research management has become absolutely necessary in R&D institutions. Accordingly, ICAR has its Guidelines for Intellectual Property Management and Technology and a decentralized three-tier IP management mechanism is institutionalized in ICAR w.e.f. 2nd October 2006.  This system was implemented through XI Plan scheme viz. “Intellectual Property Management and Transfer/Commercialization of Agricultural Technology Scheme”. This scheme has contributed to developing an IP environment in ICAR. Its implementation has led to increased IPR-filing (patents, plant variety rights, copyrights, trademarks, etc.). Based on the encouraging lessons learnt during the XI Plan, the scope in the proposed XII Plan scheme is considerably enhanced. The enhanced scope is thus given the new name, ‘National Agriculture Innovation Fund’ with three components viz. Component I: Innovation Fund (the XI Plan Scheme of Intellectual Property Management and Transfer/ Commercialization of Agricultural Technologies); Component II: Incubation Fund (Supporting Agri-business Incubation Centres in institutions developing agricultural technologies); and Component III: ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture),which implemented through Extension Division of ICAR. Objectives of NAIF Component I (Innovation Fund)

    To promote creativity and innovations in ICAR institutes;
    To strengthen the institutional mechanism to protect/manage innovations/intellectual properties (IPs) generated within the ICAR/NARS system;
    To understand and attempt as necessary a vigil on infringement, improper exploitation and abuse of the intellectual assets belonging to ICAR/NARS;
    To augment capacity building in IPRs and technology transfer/commercialization dimensions;
    To manage new knowledge as per principles in ICAR’s new and implemented guidelines/policies.

Component II (Incubation Fund)

    To establish/transform agri-business Incubator centres as leaders in NARS that would provide technology and skill up gradation, inputs supply and market support leading to promotion of viable enterprises and sustainable employment to entrepreneurs;
    To undertake last mile scale-up from pilot level of value chain in collaboration with stakeholders;
    To explore and support appropriate technologies including grassroots’ innovations that are vital in future for an accelerated growth and competitive technological leadership;
    To impart training and capacity building to prospective entrepreneurs; generate value added manpower to compete effectively; and
    To provide seed money support to potential incubates/entrepreneurs taking up promising innovations or technologies.

Set up The Intellectual Property and Technology Management Unit in ICAR is oversees all matters related to intellectual properties and technology transfer/commercialization. ICAR recognizes that a systematic management of its technology products and services while bringing commercial ethos in their transfer and realization at the user end would result in much-needed dividends for the nation. Individual institutes of ICAR are empowered and enabled to enter into licensing contracts or commercial agreements for the commercial transfer of ICAR technologies to the interested parties. A middle-tier consisting of Ten Subject Specific Zonal Technology Management (ZTM) Units is developed to facilitate serious business and strengthen public-private partnerships. These zonal units also project the ICAR technology profiles available at various ICAR institutes located in the respective zones. The central IP and technology management mechanism at ICAR Headquarters facilitates techno-legal and policy matters/concerns that may arise on case-to-case basis in the course of developing win-win relationships and also catalyzes public-private relationships at the central level. 
Crop Science
ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi  ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad
Horticultural Science
ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru  ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi
Animal Science
ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar    ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal
Fisheries Science   Agricultural Engineering
ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin  ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal
Natural Resource Management     Agricultural Education
ICAR-ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Barapani     ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research & Management, Hyderabad

Thrust Areas

    Streamlining transfer of ICAR knowledge and technology products through commercial, cooperative and open public routes.
    Joint intellectual property management support in collaborative projects
    Facilitation and advisories in techno-regulatory and policy matters related to intellectual property and technology management.
    Public-private partnerships in technology/know-how transfer and R&D.

Policy & Guidelines

ICAR encourages interested parties to enter into commercial ventures with ICAR technology and knowledge products and services as per the

    ICAR Guidelines for Intellectual Property Management and Technology Transfer/Commercialization (Revised 2018)
    ICAR Guidelines for Internal Evaluation and Forwarding Research Papers to Scientific Journals and Data Management in ICAR Institutes.
    ICAR Rules and Guidelines for Professional Service Functions (Training, Consultancy, Contract Research and Contract Service)
    Empanelment of law firms for Patent - IPR Attorneys-Reg
    Agri-Startups: Reflection of ICAR Technologies in Market
    Proceedings of UPAYA (Agri-Startups and entrepreneurship Conclave)
