
Our research portfolio and priorities

BBSRC’s priorities guide what we invest in across our research portfolio.

Our research and innovation priorities are based on our high-level objectives: advancing the frontiers of bioscience discovery, and tackling strategic challenges.
Advancing the frontiers of bioscience discovery

Our priorities for this objective are:

    understanding the rules of life
    transformative technologies.

Tackling strategic challenges

Our priorities for this objective are:

    bioscience for sustainable agriculture and food
    bioscience for renewable resources and clean growth
    bioscience for an integrated understanding of health.

You can find out more about our high-level objectives and research and innovation priorities in BBSRC’s delivery plan.
If you’re applying for a standard research grant

It’s a good idea to consider how your research contributes to BBSRC’s strategic priorities if you’re applying for a standard research grant (a funding opportunity open to a wide range of research and approaches within BBSRC’s remit).

We also encourage proposals for research with potential impacts relating to at least one of these priority areas:

    animal health
    bioenergy: generating new replacement fuels for a greener, sustainable future
    combatting antimicrobial resistance
    data-driven biology
    food, nutrition and health
    healthy ageing across the life course
    integrative microbiome research
    new strategic approaches to industrial biotechnology
    reducing waste in the food chain
    replacement, refinement and reduction (3Rs) in research using animals
    sustainably enhancing agricultural production
    synthetic biology
    systems approaches to the biosciences
    technology development for the biosciences
    welfare of managed animals.

BBSRC also welcomes research proposals that outline how you will improve the effectiveness and impact of research by focusing on any of these additional priority areas:

    collaborative research with users
    research that informs public policy
    international partnerships.

How we manage our portfolio and priorities

BBSRC’s strategy advisory panels help to shape our research and innovation portfolios. The panels consist of experts and stakeholders from the biosciences research community, the private sector, learned societies and wider society.

You can also help shape our future research portfolio by submitting a Big Idea to our pipeline of ambitious and adventurous ideas from the bioscience community.

Last updated: 24 January 2022
