Assistive technology for rail staff

Unique Identifier: IFA004

In train stations, staff regularly check the public areas such as platforms, concourse and shops to detect threats to the public. This includes any unusual activity and items. Unusual activity is something that a normal train passenger or station user would not be doing, such as trying to avoid staff, staying at a station too long or collecting information about the station. Rail companies use the ‘See it, Say it, Sorted’ campaign to promote members of the public identifying and reporting any unusual behaviour or items. This has proved to be a huge success, encouraging already observant members of the public.

We sought innovative solutions to work in combination with existing railway security measures and the ‘See it, Say it, Sorted’ campaign to detect unusual behaviour. This could also be used to help identify and assist passengers who appear to be lost, those who are vulnerable or possibly considering self-harm. Assistance could be provided by a member of staff equipped with technology, a piece of technology itself, or a member of staff trained in a new procedure. For example, members of staff could be enabled with technology to readily answer questions or there may be a mobile artificial intelligence presence. Overall, this should help to facilitate good customer service and help staff feel confident and safe approaching members of the public. Any solution must be cost effective.

We sought:

    innovative technologies or solutions that help staff identify unusual activity and interact with members of the public, along with an understanding of how these fit into the current market landscape

    ideas to further encourage passengers to spot and report unusual behaviour

    ways to identify passengers who need assistance, as well as a deployable solution

    additional benefits in customer service for train station users, and confidence and security for station staff to understand the effectiveness of body-worn cameras at deterring unusual behaviour

Screening train carriages

Unique Identifier: IFA005

Trains require checking to identify whether items have been left unattended in carriages, especially while the train is in use, so that staff can be alerted quickly. Screening is a difficult process due to the complexity of the areas within trains that would need to be checked. These will include areas such as the spaces under seats, overhead luggage racks, and the junctions between carriages. In order to make the process more efficient, we would like to augment or automate this process. There is a need for a device that is able to scan train carriages and determine if any foreign objects have been left behind.

We were interested in proposals that:

    modify existing processes (e.g. CCTV) to meet the screening needs
    screen the whole carriage, including under the seats, overhead racks and junction between carriages. Screening needs to be carried out rapidly, whilst the train is in use and with passengers present

Regenerative medicine at the front line

Unique Identifier: IFA010

Recently a regenerative medicine research strategy was developed for Defence, based on the following scoping study. One of the research themes identified concerns understanding how the systemic response to severe traumatic injury affects later regenerative capacity, principally focusing on extremity soft tissue.

Regenerative responses are dependent on context. Regenerative medicine must not only be about providing injured tissues with a therapy but also with an environment conducive to regeneration.

The burden of tissue damage associated with severe traumatic injury can lead to a dysregulation of a variety of systems including immune, metabolic and haemostatic responses. A better understanding of this context and what happens to, for example, the viability, production, differentiation and migration of cells involved in repair and regeneration after severe trauma will be important for the development of novel early regenerative strategies.

We sought proposals to:

    look to understand the effect of the systemic milieu on regenerative processes, either endogenous or therapeutic

or

    investigate an approach to modulate the systemic environment after severe injury with subsequent assessment of an appropriate outcome variable associated with wound regeneration. Proposals should take into account the context in which medical care is likely to be delivered in the future as therapeutic concepts should be appropriate for use early after injury in austere environments.

Advancing less-lethal weapon capability

Unique Identifier IFA011

Once a metal detector or security scanner alarms on a passenger, they are subjected to a further search in order to resolve the alarm and determine whether this is a false positive or a genuine alarm. Currently this is carried out using a combination of hand searches and use of handheld metal detectors and explosive trace detection. Hand searches, particularly when performed on certain areas of the body, can be intrusive for the passenger and uncomfortable for the security officer conducting the search.

We were interested in receiving proposals for the development of hand-held solutions that will help detect both metallic and non-metallic threats on the body while reducing the need for person-person contact, particularly in harder-to-search areas of the body.

We were particularly interested in:

    Detection of metallic and non-metallic threats, for example, weapons, explosives and other dangerous goods. The solution needs to be portable, easy to operate, low cost and with the potential to complement (and not duplicate) existing screening processes, such as metal and explosive detection.

    Solutions that can be used for the whole-body, or for solutions focused on searching specific areas of the body would both be acceptable if offering new or enhanced capabilities.

    Ideally, solutions would be no slower than current hand search procedures; faster search times would be desirable.

    The solution must be safe to use on people (e.g. does not use ionising radiation).

Innovative security features for bank notes

Unique Identifier IFA013

Public confidence in currency is directly related to the ability of the user to accurately and quickly authenticate a banknote. Banknotes employ a range of visual and tactile features – such as holographic foils or optically variable coloured inks - to aid public or retailer authentication. The Bank of England is now looking ahead and inviting ideas to develop novel, overt, security features and print technologies for consideration for potential use in future generations of banknotes.

These technologies should be:

    an innovation that uses overt technologies
    difficult to counterfeit or easily simulate
    easy and intuitive to use for the public or retailer
    able to function without an additional tool, however technologies that use a simple, low cost tool may be considered
    easy to communicate
    durable
    compatible with high volume printing techniques; representing good value for money with a high production yield
    suitable for integration into a banknote design

We are not looking for covert technologies, or those that require a sophisticated device to authenticate or decode and we will not consider features that rely on mobile phones or mobile applications. Security technologies in the family of holographic foils, lenticular lens features or optically variable inks will not be considered in this call.

Further high level information on material requirements may be requested by submitting an Innovation Outline.

You should note that for this innovation focus area the DASA terms and conditions will not apply. Direct contracts with the Bank of England will be negotiated and ownership of intellectual property under such contract will be consistent with the position adopted in the DASA terms and conditions.
Understanding the psychological effect on the public of chemical regulation change

Unique Identifier: IFA014

Everyday commercially available products are at risk of misuse or exploitation for illegitimate purposes, for example, to conduct an explosive attack. Banning such products is typically undesirable due to anticipated impacts on prosperity, consumer freedoms and lack of alternatives for legitimate use.

We undertook research into safer alternatives to common household products at highest risk of terrorist misuse. To successfully introduce any alternative products to market we must ensure a level playing field for business is secured while supporting the freedom of consumer choice. One method to achieve the former is through regulation. However, we need to understand how the public would react should we make regulatory changes that require reformulation of their favourite consumer products and how to create a positive customer demand for safer alternatives to current at risk products.

Proposals needed to provide an understanding of the following:

    psychological effect on members of the public of regulatory changes that alter the makeup of their favourite products (including price, efficacy etc.).

    influences or drivers for the purchase of commercially available products at high-risk of misuse (for example, why do consumers choose such products?) – a list of high risk products will be offered to successful bidders.

    key methods which could be used to encourage consumers to adopt safer alternatives.

Understanding the risk of chemical and explosives precursors found in household products and the opportunities to replace them

Unique Identifier: IFA015

Everyday household products serve a number of purposes, from cleaning and cooking to DIY and cosmetics, however while these products may be used for legitimate applications, a number of these common products are at significant risk of misuse by terrorist organisations. Products that contain chemical and explosives precursor substances can and have been used to create home-made explosives devices (HMEs) using alarmingly simple methods.

Market research, extensive industry engagement and supply chain studies tell us we could do more to prevent successful terrorist attacks by modifying the formulations of these products to make them much harder to misuse. We are seeking novel ideas to replace or reduce the potential harm of chemical and explosives precursors in household products.

This might include research into viable commercial alternatives, or experimental studies to understand additional risks of precursor substances and opportunities to make them more difficult to misuse.

We were particularly interested in proposals that look at:

    Hydrogen Peroxide (for instance, hair dyes and other cosmetic applications)
    Sulphur
    strong acids
    Potassium Chlorate
    Hexamine
    Sodium and Calcium Hypochlorites

Detecting firearms and ammunition through scent

Unique Identifier: IFA016

Firearms and their ammunition are currently detected through very effective existing screening and detection technologies. However, we are seeking solutions to increase the throughput of items screened through the detection of headspace compounds, thereby reducing the burden on staff without reducing security.

Any solution developed for this challenge needed to be capable of integration with detection equipment currently used for aviation security.

To help with development of ideas, we offered a representative data set detailing some of the compounds which may be present on firearms and spent ammunition (as a Government Furnished Asset (GFA)). This GFA will be made available to bidders funded in this competition who request it and demonstrate the value it would add to their proposals.

What we didn’t want:

    minor or incremental developments of current solutions
    solutions which are already commercial products
    literature reviews
    technologies that don’t use headspace compounds for detection

Next generation aviation security

Unique Identifier: IFA017

We sought innovators that could help shape the next generation of aviation security, specifically the ability to detect illegal, illicit or contraband items, such as explosives, chemicals or drugs.

We were looking for: * a novel idea that could completely change how aviation security is carried out * an innovative concept that could be added to existing aviation security measures * an innovation used within another sector that could be adapted for use in aviation security

We were looking for innovations that could address any aspect of aviation security, from vehicle screening to in-flight supplies, from passenger and bag search to cargo. We are looking for ideas that help to ensure we continue to have one of the safest aviation security ecosystems in the world.

What we wanted:

    innovative solutions that go beyond current solutions used in aviation security
    ideas that facilitate staff to carry out security checks
    solutions that enhance the passenger experience and help airports
    deas from other sectors that could be moved into aviation security

What we didn’t want:

    minor or incremental developments of current solutions
    solutions which are already commercial products
    literature reviews or outputs which are just a report

Reduced-Burden Area Biosurveillance

Unique Identifier IFA018

Biosurveillance enables us to more rapidly detect Biological Warfare Agent (BWAs) incidents and helps to reduce the potential impact by enabling decision makers to develop the best course of action for deployment of medical countermeasures and other protective measures.

We are looking to identify technologies to provide static detection at sentry points or to be deployed as a networked system that could be analogous to the size and function of the Man-portable Chemical Agent Detector (MCAD) or GID3. Solutions should be capable of providing biosurveillance capability to fixed bases with good infrastructure, e.g. Main Operating Bases (MOB) and Sea Port of Disembarkation (SPOD), as well as forward locations with lesser infrastructure e.g. Forward Operating Bases (FOB).

Our end goal is to create an automated all-in-one detection system with integrated aerosol collection, sample processing and identification in as small a system as possible. We are therefore looking for projects which will either develop components (e.g. aerosol collection, sample processing or identification) which could be eventually integrated into a system, or integrate pre-existing components into an all-in-one system. Because the final system needs to provide high confidence outputs in order to support rapid decision making, we are not interested in options based on generic detection technologies (e.g. fluorescence, LIDAR etc). We need the solution to be able to provide specific detection of individual threat agents.

When describing your idea, please use the key performance metrics for the technology options including burden (e.g. size, weight, power, and minimal consumable requirement), timeliness (speed of response), threat agent coverage (including different threat modes that could be tuned according to adversity or endemic threat), throughput, sensitivity, specificity and confidence level(s).
Reducing Reliance on Global Navigation Satellite Systems Quantum Augmented Position, Navigation and Timing Sensing Capability

Unique Identifier IFA025

The UK Defence and Security sector has demanding requirements for accurate and resilient Position, Navigation and Timing (PNT). When Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) are either absent, denied, degraded or unreliable, a platform’s Inertial Navigation System (INS) will drift; PNT uncertainty will grow, and mission success may be compromised. As the future operational environment becomes increasingly congested, cluttered, contested, connected and constrained, advances in current navigation technologies will be required to avoid mission failure.

It is envisaged that a route to a robust and enduring PNT solution will involve advancements in complementary military PNT technology and/or augmentation of current INS with advanced next generation quantum sensing capability. Dstl is currently investigating the challenges posed when integrating and operating the next generation of PNT sensing technologies in harsh and restrictive environments.

Examples of sensor technologies are atomic clocks and high performance oscillators, enabling frequency combs, and quantum enabled accelerometers, gyroscopes, gravity sensors, and magnetic field sensors or gradiometers thereof.

We seek proposals on short term (≤6 months) feasibility studies that provide evidence for advancing technological sensing performance and/or enhanced environmental operational capability over a 5 year time frame. Individual proposals are expected to be in the range £100-£150K.

We are not seeking proposals that:

    provide solutions which are already commercial products
    literature reviews

Examples of desired low Technical Readiness Level (TRL 4 to 6) technology sensing performance and environmental operational capability advancements;

    greater sensitivity, bandwidth and data-rate
    reductions in dead-time, bias and drift
    functioning within greater SWaP constraints
    reliability within a harsher environment

This call is specifically focused on the development of quantum technology to provide enhanced PNT capabilities. Other, ‘non-quantum’ technologies are being looked at elsewhere under the Dstl S&T Programme. Feasibility studies will provide evidence to support assertions of advances of technological sensing performance and/or enhanced environmental operational capability via demonstration of a technology prototype, corroborated theoretical modelling and/or simulation. In support of the feasibility proposals a realistic technical comparison with current state-of-the-art commercially available solutions should be included.

Dstl has generated a set of engineering tools to support mapping next generation PNT technology capabilities across all military operations.

These tools are the Engineering Severity Level (ESL) Matrix and the Size, Weight and Power (SWaP) Matrix. The ESL and SWaP tools provide a mechanism for suppliers to communicate the current and future (≤5 year) operational capability of proposed technology in increasingly challenging operational conditions. All proposals submitted under IFA025 need to clearly state how they relate to the ESL and SWaP tools.

Suppliers are expected to submit feasibility proposals that utilise the engineering tools provided. This exercise is to assist discussions between Dstl and its suppliers and identify early exploitation opportunities noting that some information may be unknown or speculative at this stage. Note also that The ESL and SWaP tool figures do not represent mandatory technology development requirements. The inability to meet all or some demanding requirements does not immediately disqualify any technology proposal.

Suppliers must utilise the engineering tools provided to meet the minimum requirement for proposal submission. All proposals submitted under IFA025 need to clearly state how they apply to the ESL and SWaP tools.
Armoured Fighting Vehicle Short Gap Crossing Capability

Unique Identifier IFA026

The British Army currently has limited short gap crossing capability (up to 4m gaps) to meet future desired operational outputs. Analysis suggests an urgent need to energise research and development (R&D) in this critical area to provide a simple, ubiquitous, inexpensive and effective short gap crossing solution. This capability must provide the Army’s armoured fighting vehicles (up to 40 tonnes at 3.5m width of vehicle for both tracked and wheeled platforms) with an innate gap crossing system which significantly improves their freedom of action and allows users to rapidly disperse and concentrate on their own; thereby permitting Close Support Royal Engineer resources to be focused on supporting main effort combat taskings.

It is envisaged that the proposed short gap crossing system will be used and applicable for both wet (river) or dry gaps up to 4 metres wide and 1-2 meters deep. It must allow the selected gap to be executed by the first vehicles to arrive at the obstacle. The system must allow for operation under armour with minimum / no exposure of the crew to hostile fire and be deployed from the full range of British Army combat vehicle types. System deployment to vehicle crossing must be quick (i.e. no more than 7 minutes – as this timing is driven by an adversaries’ ability to acquire and target a friendly force element with indirect fire).

Ideally the system should be standalone, modular, light weight, compact, not draw on vehicle power systems or hydraulic take offs to function or deploy nor interfere with weapon arcs or armour protection. It need only fill a selected void enough to enable the safe entry and egress of the vehicle (i.e. enhance or enable a vehicle platform’s innate ability to ‘step’ over a gap). It should be able to be used for a minimum of two crossings before failure. The system must allow unhindered tactical movement of vehicle and must not inhibit the use of any crew served weapon systems (i.e. you can fight the vehicle whilst deploying / operating the gap crossing system).

We are seeking individual proposals in the range of £150-300k per annum that span 2 phases.

Proposals must:

    complete in full by March 2023

Phase 1:

    seek to develop, test and evaluate sub-system concepts to meet this challenge
    phase 1 will have a break clause to cease any further supplier participation if phase 1 deliverables do not realistically meet the criteria outlined above

Phase 2:

    design and produce a full scale integrated prototype concept demonstration. This demonstration must be presented to DSTL and the Royal Engineers Trials and Development Unit

    all phases must complete by March 2023
    successful bids must include provision of a suitable supplier provided test facilities and supplier provisioned test instrumentation, vehicles and all associated materials.
    no Government Furnished Equipment will be provided to Suppliers for either year

Examples of desired low Technical Readiness Level (TRL 4 to 6) gap crossing technology that is being sought include;

    novel solutions such as the use of rapidly expanding foam, inflatable bags, super lightweight fascine and short bridges which do not require expensive materials or specialists to deploy
    robust, reliable and durable modular systems that can be operated by non-specialist All Arms user with minimum training in harsh combat environments
    simple, robust, ubiquitous, low-cost and effective technologies that can be easily manufactured in the UK once developed

We are not seeking proposals that:

    provide solutions which are already commercial products
    literature reviews
    provide solutions on traditional bridging technologies as these are being looked at elsewhere with the DSTL S&T Programme

Reducing the Cyber Attack Surface (RCAS)

Unique Identifier IFA029

The Defence Enterprise is an expansive, diverse and continually changing construct with a large integrated network of cyber technologies, many of which are legacy. This presents a large and diverse surface for cyber enabled attack.

Within this Rapid Impact Competition DASA expects to fund proposals within Technical Readiness Level 4 – 7 (TRLs) up to £300K for a 9 month contract. Proposed technologies should demonstrate by providing a roadmap describing how they would achieve a technical demonstrator by end of Financial Year 2023 if further funding was made available.

The Defence Science and Technical Laboratory (DSTL) on behalf of the MOD is interested in identifying and accelerating next generation hardware and software technologies to ‘design-out’ the vulnerabilities prevalent within current and future computer networks and systems (with a particular focus on Operational Technologies), thereby dramatically reducing Defence exposure to Cyber effects.

Intelligently applying these technologies would significantly reduce the opportunity for manipulation of such vulnerabilities (i.e. reduce the “Attack Surface”) on MOD systems and platforms; effectively raising the barrier to entry for adversaries and providing greater confidence and a level of assurance against cyber-enabled attack. Proposed solutions could be for both future systems and /or could be retro-fitted to existing defence capabilities.

We are seeking proposals that are novel and applicable across a whole “class” of attack surface rather than solutions tailored to a specific threat. E.g. With respect to software, a solution may eliminate an entry in the Common Weakness Enumeration Top 25.

We are not seeking proposals that:

    offer demonstrations of off-the-shelf products requiring no experimental development (unless applied in a novel way to the challenge)
    offer no real prospect of integration into defence and security capabilities
    offer no real prospect of out-performing existing technological solutions

To increase the impact and likelihood of exploitation, the output of these proposals may be shared across UK government as appropriate. Furthermore, as deemed appropriate, proposal outputs may be shared with partner nation governments including Five Eyes (FVEYS) partners nations in accordance with the rights secured under DEFCON 705. However, DASA reserves the right to apply an alternative Intellectual Property contractual conditions if individual circumstances dictate, to be mutually agreed with you before a contract is awarded. Under the terms of DEFCON 705 any intellectual property generated under the contract belongs to the contractor. In return, the funding Authority obtains a set of rights to use the delivered technical information and associated intellectual property for specified purposes.
Autonomous Resilient Cyber Defence (ARCD) Intelligent Agents

Unique Identifier IFA028

In response to operational demands, military networks and systems are becoming more complex and interconnected, both internally and with allies, and with commercial and civilian infrastructure. In parallel, attacks are becoming more sophisticated, with potentially more impact on military operations. Identifying, selecting and carrying out cyber defence responses in a timely manner is essential.

Within this Emerging Innovation Competition DASA is expecting proposals with low Technical Readiness Level (TRLs 1- 4). We have two levels of funding:

    Less than 6 month contract: up to £150K
    6 to 12 month contract: up to £300K

This Emerging Innovation IFA is open for submissions within the DASA Open Call until 02 March 2022. (See Para 9.1). Further competitions may be advertised

The Autonomous Resilient Cyber Defence (ARCD) project aims to research and develop self-defending, self-recovering concepts for military platforms and technologies. The goal is to deliver a new paradigm in Cyber Defence, reducing the time it takes to respond to incidents and ensuring freedom of action.

Key will be the development of autonomous agents which perceive their environment, take actions autonomously and improve its performance with learning. Such agents should respond to adversary / threat activity on networks and systems without human intervention. These agents will need to operate with incomplete or uncertain data, analyse a range of (potentially complex) response options, evaluate the risks and impact of selected approaches and continuously monitor for unintended consequences. These agents may need to operate in edge environments where computer capability is scarce and should be auditable by a human operator.

We require proposals to include Deliverables and where applicable to a specific deliverable, this must include source/object code.

We are not seeking proposals that:

    provide solutions, which are already commercial products (or are included as part of commercial products / cybersecurity platforms)
    focus on the detection of anomalous or malicious activity
    aim to solely develop training environments for autonomous agents
    aim to conduct literature reviews or outputs which are just a report.

Suppliers are strongly encouraged to submit a Innovation Outline prior to full proposal submission. To submit this outline, please visit the contact a DASA Innovation Partner page.

We will aim for the Innovation Partner to contact you within 10 working days of your Innovation Outline submission. Once the Innovation Partner has considered your outline, they will advise you whether your idea is suitable for DASA funding and provide you with guidance on the bidding process.

To increase the impact and likelihood of exploitation, the output of these proposals may be shared across UK government as appropriate. Furthermore, as deemed appropriate, proposal outputs may be shared with partner nation governments including Five Eyes (FVEYS) partners nations in accordance with the rights secured under DEFCON 705. However, DASA reserves the right to apply an alternative Intellectual Property contractual conditions if individual circumstances dictate, to be mutually agreed with you before a contract is awarded. Under the terms of DEFCON 705 any intellectual property generated under the contract belongs to the contractor. In return, the funding Authority obtains a set of rights to use the delivered technical information and associated intellectual property for specified purposes.
Military Systems Information Assurance (MSIA)

Unique Identifier IFA030

Military Systems Information Assurance (MSIA) is a project element within the Cyber Defence Enhancement through Life Project. Funded as part of the UK Government’s Integrated Review of security, defence, development and foreign policy (IR) to modernise UK forces across domains. The IR has highlighted the importance of Cyber defence for the UK Critical National Infrastructure and Defence.

The Defence Enterprise is an expansive, diverse and continually changing construct with a large element of Operational Technologies, many of which are legacy. This presents a large and varied attack surface. With the increasing cyber threat to UK, Information Security is essential. It is therefore critical that the UK understands and adapts to future ways of securing data in order to provide Information Advantage and safeguard critical data.

The purpose of this challenge is to identify, develop and accelerate new and/or novel technical solutions for Information Assurance. Examples include, but are not limited to:

    Innovative ways to provide assured information flow across both high bandwidth, reliable, corporate/enterprise level networks, and low bandwidth, intermittent comms channels.
    Innovative ways of securing data at rest.
    Innovative methods for Authentication.
    Securing information in a Cloud environment, i.e. to secure data at rest and whilst being processed; this will focus on end user/system implementation as opposed to relying on the underlying cloud infrastructure.
    Novel cryptographic key management solutions.

Whilst, historically, these solutions have often involved cryptographic based approaches this challenge seeks alternative technologies and approaches that may not use cryptography.

We are seeking proposals that:

    Offer non-conventional technical approaches to Information Assurance solutions
    Will either involve novel uses of existing Cryptographic techniques or alternative, novel, non-cryptographic solutions
    Address either current or future security issues

Proposals will be assessed on the likelihood of successful adoption within a military arena, therefore proposals should address either current or future security issues. Proposals can apply to all types of MoD systems from ships, vehicles, aircraft, dismounted soldiers, Command and Control systems up to MOD Headquarters, and all associated networks and cloud-based environments. Proposals, surmounting the challenges of the end user operating environment, can focus on specific problems (for example the security of a vehicle platform) or general systems (for example, bearer networks).

Successful proposals may provide a range of benefits including enhanced security, or increased efficiency and usability, whilst retaining existing security levels. Whilst this competition is not targeting specific issues, a successful proposal should be clear on how its novel solution or application could provide potential benefits.

We are not seeking proposals that:

    Offer demonstrations of off-the-shelf products requiring no experimental development (unless applied in a novel way to the challenge)
    Are Literature Reviews
    Offer no real long-term prospect of integration into defence and security capabilities
    Offer no real prospect of out-competing existing technological solutions
    Offer the current traditional approach to using Cryptography

Funding for this IFA will be split by Technical Readiness Level (TRL). Less mature, lower TRL (2 - 4) proposals will be considered an Emerging Innovations while more developed, higher TRL (4 - 6) proposals will be considered a Rapid Impact:

    Lower TRL, Emerging Innovations proposals should bid for funding up to £150K to provide a proof of concept within a 6 month contract.
    Higher TRL, Rapid Impact proposals should bid for funding up to £350K to provide a concept demonstrator within a 12 month contract. Government Furnished Assets (GFA) are not available for this IFA so bidders may need to simulate a network/data to develop and prove their technology.

Next Generation Wearable Technology

Unique Identifier IFA031

Technologies that can be used to collect physiological data (both physical and molecular parameters) from individuals in real-time, continue to develop rapidly. Such developments might be in terms of metrics measured, device functionality and/or form factor (site and style of measurement device). Conceptually, there are obvious drivers for the utility of data from such devices in defence capabilities. However, there remain gaps in the evidence base to support what metrics might be reliably measured by wearable technologies and how data from these platforms might be used to improve decision making in a defence context to protect human health and wellbeing.

Dstl has an aspiration to understand what metrics can be collected from wearable technology platforms that are of credible value to the defence user community (i.e. the metrics are sufficiently robust that they can reliably and confidently inform effective and timely decision making).

This IFA is therefore seeking propositions that demonstrate novel technology development and/ or data analytics tools that provide information to inform decision making pathways e.g. changes to health and wellbeing that could inform decision making pathways (i.e. as part of a system not a sole diagnostic device) or assist with assessing human performance.

Proposals should aim to demonstrate that data from wearable technologies have the potential to provide robust, reliable and actionable insight in either acute (minutes/hours – e.g. to intervene in acute injury) or chronic (days/months) timeframes.

Of particular interest to this IFA are technologies targeted towards the development of platforms and/or data analytical tools that provide predictive insight, into the effect of physical, psychological and environmental stressors on individuals.

Environmental stressors of interest will include, but are not limited to, thermal (hot or cold), altitude, infection and acute and chronic stress, relative to participant specific baselines.

This could include the development of novel sensor platforms that are capable of accessing novel metrics, development of innovative form factors that improve ergonomics; such as reduced size, weight, comfort and/or development of predictive data tools to better understand how to detect, prevent and treat illnesses caused by a range of occupational and environmental stressors.

This IFA focuses on two key challenges/themes:

1) Demonstration of new sensor technologies and of the data generated from these sensors against existing validated measures (where applicable). This should include proof of concept that measures are relevant to a particular state or condition of interest.

And/or

2) Innovative exploitation of signatures generated from current or novel wearable systems to provide prognostic insights into human health and wellbeing. Importantly, this would utilise human participant data (this does not necessarily need to be from a military population) and must provide key insights for preventative interventions.

Within this IFA, DASA expects to fund proposals within Technical Readiness Level 3 – 6 Technical Readiness Level (TRL) (Rapid Impact Category) up to £200k for a maximum of a 12 month contract (Projects will be funded across multiple Financial Years).

We are seeking proposals that encompass:

1) Developments in wearable technology platforms. This may include innovative form factors or methods for measurement, which permit the measurement of novel biosignatures from individuals (physical and/or biochemical parameters). This may include, but is not limited to:

    Introduction of novel measurements that currently cannot currently be made by wearable technologies. This might include sensors capable of measuring hydration status, a stress marker, cardiac measure or other pertinent metric.

    Improvements in quality, robustness and longevity of measurements that can be made using wearable devices e.g. reliability of data collection, data quality, and resolution and duration of data collection.

    Form factors that enable collection of data in a minimally intrusive format and thus may be more exploitable for defence customers, e.g. alternatives to wrist worn devices to include patches, arm worn or chest worn devices.

Proposals in this theme should include provision of evidence to support that the data generated from these sensors is credible and can be used to inform decision making. This could include demonstrable comparability of any measurement made to an existing validated measure where applicable and/or proof of concept that those measures are relevant to a particular human condition.

2) Exploitation of signatures generated from current or novel wearable systems to provide prognostic insights into human health and wellbeing.

    Proposals in this theme could for example focus on experimentation using wearable sensors in combination with data analysis to measure and monitor individuals to provide insight into the effects of environments or situations on those individuals.

    Of particular interest would be physical, psychological and environmental stressors such as heat or cold, altitude, infection and acute and chronic stress, relative to participant specific baselines.

    Where proposed models or computational tools are described, algorithms and all source code must be provided for future validation and verification purposes.

We are not seeking proposals that:

    Do not address the need for ethical review (MODREC). Proposals should include GDPR requirements and must include sufficient time to achieve appropriate approvals (currently c. 5 months.) For more information see here.

    Are literature reviews or literature summaries.

    Provide proof of concept data collection only. Proposals for novel sensors should aim to demonstrate that the measure is comparable to a credible/validated method to measure the same parameter/metric where appropriate.

    Demonstrate proof of concept of data collection only i.e. data architectures and software solutions are not acceptable unless part of a predictive system including the integration of novel data analytical tools.

    Do not provide prognostic information.

    Utilise existing commercially restricted algorithms.

    Do not provide source code and/or details on the models/algorithms developed sufficient for an independent reviewer to verify.

    Provide solutions which are already commercial products unless applied in a novel way to a defence specific human condition to provide new insight.

    Offer no real long-term prospect of integration into defence and security capabilities

    Offer no real prospect of out-competing existing technological solutions.

Proposals should aim to generate evidence that data from wearable technologies is meaningful in decision-making frameworks for monitoring and maintaining human health and wellbeing and offers demonstrable benefit over current solutions. There is potential for wide exploitation of options developed within this IFA to be exploited across defence, with successful projects being scoped for further use. The exploitation of technology will be leveraged through the Dstl Protecting Our People programme.