Browse our areas of investment and support
29 results found using the current filters - Now viewing 1 of 3 total pages.
Results list

    Addiction research

    These investments support and fund cross-discipline research activities that will address the biological, medical, social and economic aspects of addiction and substance misuse.
    Funding councils: ESRCMRC
    Advanced pain discovery platform (APDP)

    The aim of this programme is to deliver a consortium-based platform of national scale that will break through the complexity of pain and reveal potential new treatment approaches to address a wide spectrum of chronic and debilitating clinical conditions.
    Funding councils: BBSRCESRCMRC
    Antimicrobial resistance

    The aim of this programme is to support and enable UK researchers to carry out unique research, in collaboration with colleagues around the world, to improve our understanding of antimicrobial resistance.
    Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCMRCNERCSTFC
    Climate change and sustainability

    ESRC supports the creation of new insights from research and datasets into climate change and sustainability in areas such as land use, transport, sustainable resources and infrastructures, food, water and energy. Our funding is helping the UK to meet its climate and sustainability goals.
    Funding councils: ESRC
    Climate, environment and health

    The aim of this programme is to improve understanding of the pathways between climate, environment and health so that we can better protect and promote human health and wellbeing in the face of climate challenges.
    Funding councils: ESRCMRCNERC
    Economy

    The Economic and Social Research Council supports the creation of new insights from research and data sets that help people, organisations and policymakers understand the economy and improve day-to-day life in the UK and around the world.
    Funding councils: ESRC
    ESRC-FCDO Raising Learning Outcomes in Education Systems

    This research programme is co-funded by ESRC and the FCDO. It helps researchers to address key questions and build evidence in critical policy areas constraining education systems in developing countries.

    Raising Learning Outcomes (RLO) provides concrete ideas for policy and practice on how to improve learning, and understanding of how these ideas will translate to specific contexts.
    Funding councils: ESRC
    Future data services

    The aim of the Future Data Services (FDS) programme is to establish the next generation of data services beyond 2024.

    To achieve this, ESRC is:
        gathering evidence for, exploring and assessing the future needs of its communities
        developing options whilst recognising that research is more interdisciplinary than ever before.
    Funding councils: ESRC
    Future of UK treescapes

    This programme aims to understand the environmental and societal benefits of landscapes in which trees play a significant role. It will bring together environmental scientists, social scientists, economists, and arts and humanities researchers to form large research collaborations.
    Funding councils: AHRCESRCNERC
    Greenhouse gas removal demonstrators: directorate hub

    The aim of this programme is to assess sustainable routes for large-scale removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, allowing the UK to take a major step towards achieving net zero emissions, and to benefit from the £400 billion future global market in greenhouse gas removal.
    Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCInnovate UK



Greenhouse gas removal from the atmosphere

The aim of this programme is to carry out research to better understand the options for removing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, with a focus on the environmental, technical, economic, governance and wider societal aspects in a national and international context.
Funding councils: EPSRCESRCNERCSTFC
Health and wellbeing research – mental health

The research councils have a collective interest in mental health research. The Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) fully supports this and will work, both independently and with the other research councils, to ensure mental health research remains part of our broader strategies.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCMRCNERCSTFC
Health and wellbeing research portfolio

This programme looks at the development of medicine and healthcare practices to help us learn future lessons. It uses the cultural context of healthcare and behaviour to learn about culturally appropriate interventions, and explores diverse approaches to improving quality of life beyond medicine.
Funding councils: AHRCESRCMRC
Health systems research initiative

This programme aims to generate world-class research that focuses on strengthening and improving health systems in low and middle income countries. Research explores the performance of the health system as a whole rather than taking a disease-specific focus.
Funding councils: ESRCMRC
Improving health, wellbeing and social care

ESRC supports the creation of new insights from research and data collections into health and care services as well as research into the wider factors affecting physical and mental health including income, housing, social deprivation, and behaviours.
Funding councils: ESRC
Improving public services

ESRC supports the creation of new insights from research and datasets around the development and delivery of equitable and efficient public services including in healthcare, welfare, housing, education, waste and policing.
Funding councils: ESRC
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis

International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis aims to find solutions to complex, interconnected global problems through interdisciplinary research underpinned by big data and systems analysis. Research challenges include achieving global food security and moving to sustainable energy systems.
Funding councils: EPSRCESRCNERC
Landscape decisions: towards a new framework for using land assets

The aim of this programme is to find ways to deliver a better, evidence-based and interdisciplinary decision-making framework to inform how land is used, through research collaboration with policy, business and land management partners.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCNERC
Multimorbidity or multiple long-term conditions (MLTC)

This initiative aims to support and develop research on multimorbidity, working closely with other research councils, funders and stakeholders to bring about advances in this complex multidisciplinary area.
Funding councils: EPSRCESRCMRC
Nutrition and obesity research

The aim of this research area is to support a broad range of high quality research relating to diet, nutrition and obesity that will help in the promotion of health and in the protection from, and treatment of, disease such as diabetes and cardiovascular problems.
Funding councils: BBSRCESRCMRC



Politics and governance

The Economic and Social Research Council supports the creation of new insights from research and datasets around elections and governance in the UK and across the world to give the public the data, evidence and analysis they need to build trust and confidence in governments and democracy.
Funding councils: ESRC
Population and society

ESRC supports the creation of new insights from research and data into understanding the makeup of the nation and its needs across areas including health and care, poverty, disability, housing, wellbeing, education and policing to inform national local and global policies that improve life for all.
Funding councils: ESRC
Putting data analysis at the heart of decision-making

ESRC supports initiatives that ensure data can help to deliver effective public services, including collection of new data and helping researchers and other decision makers to access the wealth of data that already exists.
Funding councils: ESRC
Reducing the impacts of plastic waste in developing countries

The aim of this programme is to support the research needed to understand the risks posed by plastic pollution in low and middle income countries. It will explore which interventions, policies and regulations can mitigate these risks, enabling a cleaner, more resilient and productive environment.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCNERC
Sustainable management of UK marine resources

This programme aims to:

    improve understanding of societal perspectives and behaviours around the marine environment
    integrate this into systems-based approaches that support development and analysis of interventions and inform effective decision-making for marine management and policy development.

Funding councils: ESRCNERC
Trans-Atlantic Platform (T-AP)

The Trans-Atlantic Platform (T-AP) is a collaboration between humanities and social science research funders from South America, North America and Europe. It aims to enhance the ability of funders, research organisations and researchers to engage in transnational collaboration.
Funding councils: AHRCESRC
UK climate resilience programme

The aim of this programme is to draw together climate research and expertise to deliver robust, multi and interdisciplinary climate risk and adaptation solutions research. This will ensure the UK is resilient to climate variability, and able to exploit adaptation and green growth opportunities.
Funding councils: AHRCEPSRCESRCNERC
Understanding the impact of COVID-19

ESRC supports research and datasets looking at the social, economic and public health impacts of COVID-19. The evidence is helping to shape the response to the pandemic and its effects now and in the future.
Funding councils: ESRC
Understanding the impacts of hydrometeorological hazards in Southeast Asia

The aim of this programme is to increase resilience to hydrometeorological hazards in Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines. The focus is on creating a better understanding of likely impacts so that appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures can be implemented.
Funding councils: ESRCNERC
