

The NIHR funds policy research to enable evidence informed policy making in health and social care.

The NIHR funds high quality and cost-effective research to deliver relevant, timely and accessible evidence to inform national policy decisions across the health, care and public health systems. 

We commission policy research to support the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, Ministers, and Senior Officials in the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) and its Arm’s Length Bodies (ALBs), through the Policy Research Programme (PRP).

We fund policy research in four main ways:

    large-scale initiatives comprising linked groups of studies, or single projects, through open competition
    long term programmes of research and responsive projects in Policy Research Units (PRUs), based at leading academic institutions
    syntheses of evidence through a Reviews Facility, based at two centres in London-York and Exeter
    fast, responsive analysis through the Call-off Analytical Facility

We have funded rapid COVID-19 policy research during the pandemic, through our Recovery, Renewal, Reset funding call and the PRUs. Read more about our COVID-19 policy research projects.
Policy Research Units - upcoming webinar

Planning for the next set of PRUs to meet policy priorities from January 2024 to December 2028 has begun. We expect to launch a call in the summer of 2022 that will initially involve completion of a focused application form by late autumn. Before a call is launched we are hosting a webinar on 10 June 2022 at 11am and welcome interested applicants to come along to find out more about PRUs and the PRP more generally. If you would like to attend, please sign up via the NIHR PRU Webinar Registration Form.
On this page:

    Policy Research Programme
    Policy Research Units
    Our people
    Contact us

Policy Research Programme

The Policy Research Programme (PRP) funds high quality research to deliver robust, relevant, timely, accessible and intelligible evidence to government and arms-length bodies.
Scope

PRP commissions research across the full policy remit of DHSC. PRP funded research will normally:

    provide robust evidence to inform policy development and implementation in timely and accessible ways, including assessment of potential impact and cost-effectiveness
    evaluate policies, including the evaluation of pilots before policies are fully implemented
    tackle policy priorities and evidence needs over the longer term.

The amount of funding available and the funding duration depends on the requirements of the research specification.

PRP funds research through open competitions that are directly competitive commissioning exercises:

    funding competitions are open to all suitably qualified potential applicants
    typically three funding rounds take place each year, each of which has several commissioned funding opportunities
    each funding opportunity specifies the objectives, available budget, and application process. 

PRP has a two stage application process.  At each stage, applications are peer reviewed and the scientific quality and relevance of applications are assessed by an independent funding committee. Please see the guidance for stage 1 and stage 2 applications, and the Standard Information for Applicants, to find out more.

Research proposals are submitted online through the Research Management System. We supply template application forms for stage 1 (.DOCX - Word) and stage 2 (.DOCX - Word) to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of submission. 
What we fund

PRP-funded policy research should:

    Be flexible and open to regular input from policy stakeholders. Demonstrable experience of meaningful engagement with policy makers is often a pre-requisite for funding.
    Provide new knowledge needed to improve or evaluate services or policies.
    Ensure findings will be of value to those facing similar problems elsewhere in the health, care and public health systems - that is, be generalisable.

The Policy Research Programme will support:

    Formative and summative evaluations
    Clinical trials
    Longitudinal studies
    Secondary analyses
    Systematic reviews
    Multi-study research initiatives (linked groups of studies providing a range of perspectives on a key policy area or issue).

The programme will not support:

    Animal studies or work on animal tissues
    Experimental medicine research
    Market research, large scale population surveys
    Local service development, clinical evaluation of clinical audit.

 

View the Policy Research Programme portfolio
Policy Research Units

NIHR Policy Research Units (PRUs) undertake research to inform government and arms-length bodies making policy decisions about health and social care. The units create a critical mass of experts for research in priority areas for health and social care policy.

The 15 units provide both a long-term resource for policy research and a rapid-response service to provide evidence for emerging policy needs. The units also offer advice to policy makers and analysts on the evidence base and options for policy development.

Each university-based PRU hosts a multidisciplinary team of researchers from collaborating institutions.

The 15 units represent a £75 million investment over 5 years.