The Health and Social Care Delivery Research (HSDR) Programme aims to produce rigorous and relevant evidence to improve the quality, accessibility and organisation of health and social care services.

The Health and Social Care Delivery Research Programme is funded by the NIHR with specific contributions from the Chief Scientist Office (CSO) in Scotland, Health and Care Research Wales and the HSC R&D Division, Public Health Agency in Northern Ireland.

All of our funded projects are eligible for publication in the NIHR Journals Library. This open access resource is freely available online, and provides a full and permanent record of NIHR-funded research.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us
    Fast-track scheme

Scope

The HSDR programme funds evaluative research that has the potential to improve health and social care services. Research may be primary (qualitative and/or quantitative), secondary and evidence syntheses. Typical projects are mixed-methods studies with a clear focus on the organisation and quality of care. There should also be a focus on the experience of patients, staff and service users. Projects will often include an analysis of routine and linked data on service use, activity and outcomes. A variety of study designs are considered and examples include:

    major implementation studies on stroke configuration
    pragmatic trials of risk stratification tools
    evaluation of complex frailty hubs
    evidence synthesis of strengths-based approaches to social work practice
    realist evaluation of intentional nursing rounds
    organisational studies on effective board governance
    ethnographic research on the experience of inpatients with dementia in hospital wards

What we fund
HSDR funds research projects, not programmes or ongoing work. The projects must have:

    a clearly defined research question
    clear aims and objectives
    a description of how the planned methodology is likely to achieve these objectives.

Applicants will need to explain how the findings of their research will synthesised together into useful outputs for service, academic, and public audiences. There will also need to be a plan for how these findings will be communicated and demonstrate impact.