The Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation (EME) Programme funds ambitious studies evaluating interventions with potential to make a step-change in the promotion of health, treatment of disease and improvement of rehabilitation or long-term care. Within these studies, EME supports research in the mechanisms of diseases and treatments. EME is a partnership between the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the NIHR.

The EME Programme is funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the NIHR, with contributions from the CSO in Scotland, Health and Care Research Wales and the HSC R&D Division, Public Health Agency in Northern Ireland.

The EME Programme looks to attract studies with novel methodological designs that deliver results more efficiently, reduce the study timeline, and maximise the knowledge gained. The translational research it supports covers a wide range of new and repurposed interventions, such as diagnostic or prognostic tests and decision-making tools, therapeutics or psychological treatments, medical devices, and public health initiatives delivered in the NHS.

All of our funded projects are eligible for publication in the NIHR Journals Library. This open access resource is freely available online, and provides a full and permanent record of NIHR-funded research.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us

Scope

The EME Programme primarily supports clinical trials, and other robustly designed studies that test the efficacy of interventions. The interventions should have the potential to improve patient care or benefit the public.  The programme will only support studies where there is sufficient evidence that the intervention might work in man, i.e. that there is ‘proof of concept’.

Innovative study designs involving stratification, the use of routinely collected digital data or novel methodologies are strongly encouraged.

Where appropriate, the programme encourages hypothesis-testing mechanistic studies integrated within the main efficacy study.  These studies could explore the mechanisms of action of the intervention, the causes of differing responses, or promote an understanding of any potential adverse effects and how these could be reduced; they could also contribute to understanding of the disease.

The programme will also support mechanistic studies that follow on from on-going or completed clinical studies funded by the NIHR which can use data or samples from these studies. These can include qualitative research and opportunities for mechanistic work where the efficacy trial has not been successful.

The programme will accept applications for studies that use clinical or well-validated surrogate outcomes.  It will also consider studies that validate potential surrogate outcomes against a primary clinical outcome, within the main clinical trial.
Which programme should I apply to?

The following guides compare the remits of the EME Programme with the Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme (DPFS) (funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC), the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Programme, and the Invention for Innovation (i4i) Programme.

EME or MRC? Would my primary research idea be of interest to the DPFS scheme or the EME Programme?
EME or HTA? Would my primary research idea be of interest to the HTA Programme or the EME Programme?
EME or i4i? Would my primary research idea be of interest to the i4i or the EME Programme?
What we fund
The EME Programme will support

    Research to determine proof of clinical efficacy, size of effect, and long-term safety in a well-defined population.
    The evaluation of a broad range of interventions that have the potential to maintain health, treat disease or improve recovery.
    Hypothesis-testing research based on an efficacy study, to explore the mechanisms of action of interventions, causes of differing responses or disease mechanisms. These studies use data or samples obtained and stored from both treatment and control groups of a clinical study, to arrive at conclusions that would not arise from a simple cohort study.

Proposals may include two stages with progression to the main clinical evaluation dependent on the outcome of the previous stage, measured against predefined criteria. The main clinical evaluation must start within 18 months of the project start date and should account for more than 75% of the total project cost.

The work supported by the first 25% tranche of funding could include:

    Early phase studies and trials aimed at understanding mechanisms to inform the main study. We would fund research in this category to include studies where a drug improves the clinical state of patients with a genetically determined illness but the effect of the drug on gene product production has not been determined. Similarly, cell therapy treatments where symptomatic improvement has been noted but the specific action of the cells in the disease is unknown would qualify.
    Retrospective sample analysis where the data is needed to inform the main study
    Late stage development to facilitate moving the intervention from pre-clinical and early human studies to delivering the intervention in a clinical setting (for example, EME-11/133/07 Real Time Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Neonatal Intensive Care, and EME-11/100/29 Enhanced Neoplasia Detection and Cancer Prevention in Chronic Colitis (ENDCaP-C))
    Pilot or feasibility studies (for example, EME-11/100/24 Next Generation intraoperative Lymph node staging for Stratified colon cancer surgery (GLiSten)).

Staged studies will require predefined stop/go decision points, with measurable criteria to enable assessment of the successful completion of the stage.  Studies may on occasion, be reviewed by the EME Committee at the end of each stage before progression to the next stage.

    Pilot and feasibility studies where the main study would be within the remit of the EME Programme. These studies may be either stand-alone or can be the initial part of a staged project that includes the main clinical evaluation as a subsequent stage.
    The limited steps needed to progress the development of an intervention to a stage suitable for use in an accredited clinical service when included as an initial stage prior to commencing the main clinical evaluation.
    Studies using novel or infrequently-used study designs that increase the value of a study, by maximising the chances of demonstrating the benefit of an intervention, increasing the knowledge that can be gained through the study, or by making the study more efficient.
