

The Global Health Research Groups programme awards funding to specialist departments within UK universities or research institutions not currently active in global health that want to use their existing skills to build capacity to extend into this field.

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

The Global Health Research Groups programme funds research to address locally-identified challenges in LMICs, by supporting equitable research partnerships between researchers and institutions in the UK and those in low and middle income countries (LMICs) eligible to receive Official Development Assistance (ODA).

The Global Health Research Groups programme aims to generate the scientific evidence that can improve health outcomes for people in low resource setting through improving practice and informing policy. The programme also strengthens research and research management capacity and capability to support future sustainability of research in partner countries.

Global Health Research Group funding is available to research groups either new to delivering applied health research globally or that wish to expand an existing partnership.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Calls
    Contact us

Scope

Global Health Research Groups are defined as a partnership of specialist researchers within universities and research institutes in LMICs and the UK:

    either new to delivering applied health research globally, or expanding to new global partnerships to deliver applied global health research addressing unmet needs in new health areas or geographies in ODA-eligible countries
    who, through a planned start-up phase, will develop or expand equitable research partnerships and networks, to undertake LMIC-led needs analysis designed to refine relevant research questions and priorities through engagement with policy makers, evidence users and local communities, as appropriate
    who will establish a new programme of applied health research delivered through ambitious, structured plans for e.g. scoping studies, needs analysis, economic analysis, pilot studies and potentially trials
    who are able to develop the strength of the partnership to improve practice and inform policy based on scientific evidence
    who will set up and deliver a focused programme of capacity and capability strengthening at individual and institutional level appropriate to the respective goals.

Funding amount and duration

Awards up to £3 million over a period of up to 3-4 years are available.
How to apply

The Global Health Research Groups programme holds one-stage funding calls, with a mandatory Intent to Submit form ahead of stage 1. 

Applications are reviewed by independent experts and an international funding committee

Research proposals should be online through the Management Information System (MIS). We supply a word document template application form (.DOCX - Word) to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of online submission.

    Read more about the application process

 
What we fund

The Global Health Research Groups programme funds research proposals from researchers in UK-based (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) higher education institutions and research institutes. 

Applications must include a co-applicant or joint lead applicant from a country eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA) funding and relevant to the research proposal. 

Applications must demonstrate how the research proposal meets ODA compliance criteria.

Find out more about ODA eligibility

Applications in any field of applied global health research for the direct and primary benefit of people living in one or more ODA-eligible country/ies will be considered. 

Global Health Research Group awards will support applications that:

    Propose applied health research programmes that primarily and directly address the challenges faced by people and patients in ODA-eligible country/ies.
    Include multidisciplinary applied research teams with relevant expertise and a track-record of ensuring research is transferred into benefits for patients.
    include relevant engagement with policy makers, patients and the public, civil society organisations and charities throughout the life of the proposed programme.
    Demonstrate equity and collaboration in programme leadership, decision-making, capacity strengthening, governance, appropriate distribution of funds, ethics processes, data ownership, and dissemination of findings.
    Propose a coherent and sustainable plan for capacity and capability strengthening at individual and institutional level.
    Demonstrate the strength of institutional commitment to the research partnership

