

The Global Health Policy and Systems Research (Global HPSR) programme aims to support health policy and systems research that is directly and primarily of benefit to people in low and middle income countries (LMICs).

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

The Global Health Policy and Systems Research (Global HPSR) programme supports high quality, appropriate and applicable research that aims to improve whole health systems and health services in low and middle income countries (LMICs).

To date the programme has offered three types of funding award:

    development awards, for development of equitable partnerships between researchers in LMICs and those in the UK to support an application for future research funding;
    commissioned awards on topics aligned with United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs);
    researcher-led awards, for research consortia to deliver research to improve whole health systems and health services for people in LMICs.

The programme supports development of equitable partnerships between LMIC and UK researchers, who together engage stakeholders to identify and address priorities for research in health policy and health systems, and develop plans for capacity strengthening and knowledge sharing.

Global HPSR research projects are expected to underpin the WHO #HealthForAll campaign to promote universal health coverage and support meeting UN SDG 3: ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Calls
    Contact us

Scope

The scope of the Global HPSR programme is broad, covering any area of applied health policy, health services and whole systems research that can ultimately strengthen and improve health systems for people in LMICs on the DAC list.

The scope includes but is not limited to applied research on wider elements of health systems such as governance, financing, health workforce, information systems, quality, and service delivery on health services and on the impacts of broader determinants of health. It can involve global health policy and systems research across the following domains:

• patient and practitioners (micro-level)
• organisation and delivery of health care (meso-level)
• national and regional (macro-level)
What we fund

Research applications must have two Joint Leads; these will normally be Principal Investigators employed by a Higher Education Institution (HEI) or Research Institute based in either an LMIC (on the DAC list) or the UK.

An LMIC contracting institution may propose joint leadership with another LMIC HEI or Research Institute or a UK HEI or Research Institute. If the contracting institution is UK-based, then it is mandatory to jointly lead with an LMIC institution.

Applications must demonstrate how the research proposal meets ODA compliance criteria.

Find out more about ODA eligibility

In Scope

Global HPSR will support applications that:

    Meet the call remit, eligibility and key funding criteria
    Propose applied health research programmes that primarily and directly address challenges faced by one or more LMIC(s) in provision of effective health services and systems, which includes, for example, research on long-term care.
    Will clearly address one or more LMIC led research priority/ies.
    Propose whole systems approaches to research based on findings from feasibility studies, existing pilot data collection (including assessing data quality), or previous research.
    Propose applied health-related research to inform delivery of interventions that will lead from micro to macro-level improvements and will relate to and affect wider elements of a low resourced health system, such as governance, financing, health workforce, information systems, quality, service delivery etc.
    Include interdisciplinary applied research teams to support a whole-system approach to tackle priorities identified by LMICs, with relevant expertise, and plans for development of appropriate partnerships in LMICs.
    Seek to address issues of equity by incorporating research questions around gender, age, social barriers to health, and economic impact.
    Consider the impact of COVID-19 within a wider systems approach, including its impact on services for other diseases and global health systems resilience
