

The Global Health Research Units programme funds collaborations of researchers within universities and research institutes in low and middle income countries (LMICs) and the UK who wish to establish new programmes of applied health research.

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

The Global Health Research Units programme funds research to address locally-identified challenges in LMICs, by supporting equitable research partnerships between researchers and institutions in the UK and those in low and middle income countries (LMICs) eligible to receive Official Development Assistance (ODA).

The Global Health Research Units programme provides funding to support not only delivery of research that will improve health outcomes for people living in LMICs, but also to strengthen crucial research capability and capacity in resource-poor settings, in particular training and capacity building in both academic research and programme support functions.

Global Health Research Unit funding is awarded to partnerships that have an existing track record of delivering internationally recognised applied global health research and wish to consolidate and expand this work.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Calls
    Contact us

Scope

Global Health Research Units are defined as a well-established research partnership or network of universities and research institutes in LMICs and the UK:

    with an existing track record of delivering internationally recognised applied global health research addressing unmet health needs in ODA-eligible countries
    who wish to consolidate and expand this work, supporting and developing thematic research and capacity strengthening networks, through regional and global hubs
    who will deliver a large scale, ambitious programme of applied health research through a range of trials and studies
    who are able to leverage the strength of the existing partnership consortium to improve practice and inform policy based on scientific evidence
    who will set up and deliver a substantial and sustainable programme of capacity and capability strengthening at individual and institutional level.

Funding amount and duration

Awards of up to £7 million over a period of up to 5 years are available.
How to apply

The Global Health Research Units programme holds one-stage funding calls, with a mandatory Intent to Submit form ahead of stage 1. 

Applications are reviewed by independent experts and an international funding committee

Research proposals should be online through the Management Information System (MIS). We supply a word document template application form (.DOCX - Word) to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of online submission.

    Read more about the application process

What we fund

The Global Health Research Units programme funds research proposals from researchers in UK-based (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) higher education institutions and research institutes. 

Applications must include a co-applicant or joint lead applicant from a country eligible for ODA funding and relevant to the research proposal. 

Applications must demonstrate how the research proposal meets ODA compliance criteria.

Find out more about ODA eligibility

Applications in any field of applied global health research for the direct and primary benefit of people living in one or more ODA-eligible country/ies will be considered. 

Global Health Research Units awards will support applications that:

    Propose applied health research programmes that primarily and directly address the challenges faced by people and patients in ODA-eligible countries.
    Include interdisciplinary applied research teams with demonstrable expertise and a track record of ensuring research is transferred into benefits for patients in LMICs.
    Include relevant engagement with policy makers, patients and the public, civil society organisations and charities throughout the life of the proposed programme.
    Demonstrate equity and collaboration in programme leadership, decision-making, capacity strengthening, governance, appropriate distribution of funds, ethics processes, data ownership, and dissemination of findings.
    Propose a coherent and sustainable plan for capacity and capability strengthening at individual and institutional level.
    Demonstrate the strength of institutional commitment to the research partnership.
