

Our Senior Investigators are among the most prominent and prestigious researchers funded by the NIHR and the most outstanding leaders of patient and people-based research within the NIHR research community. 

Collectively, Senior Investigators constitute the NIHR College of Senior Investigators, and are members of the NIHR Academy. 
On this page:

    Role
    Selection
    Current college
    Clinical Impact Awards
    Contact us

Role

NIHR Senior Investigators:

    Contribute significantly to NIHR as a senior leader
    Lead in training and development of NIHR’s people
    Act as an ambassador for the NIHR in the wider system
    Demonstrate research excellence
    Integrate patient and public involvement in research
    Play a leading role in NIHR’s contribution to growth; for example, through attracting, developing and retaining a highly skilled health research workforce, or by supporting collaborations and contract research with the life sciences industry.

Senior Investigators receive a discretionary award of £20,000 per year of appointment to fund activities that support their research. Funding is awarded for 4 year appointments on the recommendation of an independent Selection Committee. There may be on occasion an exception to this approach; for example, where a previous term of 3 or 5 years has been held.

As senior members of the NIHR Academy,  they help guide research capacity development and enhance the career paths of our researchers. This includes participating as mentors in the NIHR mentoring programme and supporting the NIHR Future-Focused Leadership Programme as guest faculty members.
Selection

The NIHR holds an annual, open competition to fund Senior Investigators, with selection informed by the advice of an independent Selection Committee. 

Members of NIHR Committees are required to declare any interests which conflict, or may be considered to conflict, with NIHR business, or may be perceived as influencing decisions made in the course of their work within NIHR programmes. All members are asked to complete the Register of Interest form (annually), which is intended to capture long term predictable interests that could be perceived to lead to conflicts of interest. These and other interests are judged on a case by case basis at individual meetings.

NIHR registry of interests

The selection criteria for Senior Investigators are:

    NIHR and applied research focus
    Training and leadership
    Individual research excellence and impact

Senior Investigators receive a 4 year award on the recommendation of the Selection Committee. Senior Investigators can reapply for a second award on completion of the first award, with a maximum of two awards permitted totalling no more than 8 years.

After two awards, Senior Investigators will be awarded the Emeritus Senior Investigator status.

The guidance for applicants provides critical information and sets out the process for an open competition for NIHR Investigators to apply for an NIHR Senior Investigator award.