

The NIHR Invention for Innovation (i4i) Programme supports the preclinical and clinical development of medical technologies in areas of existing or emerging patient need.

The Invention for Innovation (i4i) programme is a translational research funding scheme aimed at de-risking early-to-late stage medical devices, in vitro diagnostics and high-impact patient-focused digital health technologies for ultimate NHS use. 

We fund projects that have demonstrated proof-of-concept and have a clear pathway towards adoption and commercialisation.

i4i has three funding streams: Product Development Awards (PDA), Challenge Awards and Connect. PDA and Challenge run two funding competitions a year, launching in autumn and spring, whereas Connect runs one funding competition each year. See the full dates for i4i funding competitions. All i4i funding streams have a two-stage application process. Identical applications are not permissable to be submitted to multiple open competitions.
Funding stream  Autumn/Winter competition launch    Spring/Summer competition launch
Product Development Awards      October     April
Connect     n/a     March / April
Challenge Awards    November    April

If you have a specific query regarding the eligibility of your planned study, please submit a pre-engagement form. Please note, the turnaround time for a response is 72 hours. 
Joint call on predictive algorithms in Artificial Intelligence

The Invention for Innovation (i4i) programme, alongside Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation (EME) and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) programmes, invite applications led by, or in collaboration with, industry seeking to develop, refine and evaluate predictive algorithms using artificial intelligence (AI) for health and social care. If you would like to apply for this call and your proposal is in remit for i4i PDA, please apply through PDA 24 once the call launches. More information, including the research specification can be found on the funding opportunities page.
FAST funding scheme

The new i4i FAST (Funding At the Speed of Translation) funding scheme is running as a pilot scheme in 2022. FAST supports applications of between £15k and £50k that will answer a specific question, fund a single piece of activity or fill a specific evidence gap across all technology readiness levels. FAST is a rolling call and there is no submission deadline. Find out more on the FAST funding opportunity page, and read our blog post and applicant guidance.
Special calls

In November 2021, i4i launched a standalone stream -  Dementia: Digital approaches for early detection, diagnosis and stratification. Stage 2 is now closed, with outcomes in August 2022. You can find more details in the research specification.   
NIHR 2022 Themed call on Sustainability

The i4i programme is participating in the NIHR-wide themed call on Sustainability, focusing on supporting the UK's ambition to deliver a 'net zero' NHS and meet the goals of the COP26 summit. More information can be found on the Themed call webpage.
On this page:

    PDA
    Challenge
    Connect
    Our people
    Contact us

PDA
Product Development Awards

i4i Product Development Awards (PDA) support translational research and development of medical devices, in vitro diagnostics and high-impact patient-focused digital health technologies for ultimate NHS use. The research proposals may address any disease or health area, provided there is a clear unmet clinical need. There is no upper funding limit for Product Development Awards, but costs must be fully justified.
Key eligibility criteria

    Projects can be led by small-to-medium-sized enterprises (SME), NHS providers or higher education institutions (HEIs).
    Projects must be collaborative between any two of the eligible types of organisation.
    Projects can last a minimum of 24 months and a maximum of 36 months.
    The lead organisation must be registered in England.
