

NIHR provides opportunities and funding to develop and advance global health research careers, both in low and middle income countries (LMICs) and in the UK.

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

NIHR supports researcher career pathways to develop leaders in global health in low and middle income countries (LMICs) and in the UK.

We have supported more than 300 researchers to develop their careers, across our NIHR career development awards and our awards in partnership with other organisations, such as Wellcome and the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

    See a full list of all the types of global health research career development awards we offer

We also offer training and development opportunities to researchers supported by our other global health funding programmes, to add value to, build on and strengthen existing investment in academic research capacity.
On this page:

    GHR Training Programme
    Global Research Professorships
    Co-funded career development awards
    Events and activities

GHR Training Programme

The Global Health Research Training Programme offers a number of schemes to support the training and academic career development of researchers in our Global Health Research programmes.

Early career researchers supported by Global Health Research Units or Groups,  Research and Innovation for Global Health Transformation (RIGHT) and Global Health Policy and Systems Research (Global HPSR) programmes, who are actively pursuing academic research careers become members of the NIHR Academy. There are currently more than 300  members working in global health, either based in LMICs or in the UK.

NIHR GHR Academy members are supported by local GHR Training Leads, who act as points of contact for members, and are responsible for developing a local training strategy. They take an active role providing advice and support for academic development to ensure members can thrive as successful academics and future leaders, as well as sharing examples of best practice and development opportunities.

Global Health Research Short Placement Award for Research Collaboration (GHR SPARC)

The SPARC scheme offers NIHR GHR Academy members actively pursuing an academic research career an opportunity to apply for up to £10,000 to design and undertake a short bespoke placement.

The scheme is designed to optimise and enhance the individuals’ research training experience as well as their networks, CVs and academic career opportunities. Further information regarding the scheme, including the eligibility criteria, funding available and application and assessment process can be found in the guidance notes.

This funding opportunity has now closed.
Global Health Research Cohort Academic Development Award (GHR CADA)

The GHR CADA scheme offers NIHR GHR Programme Training Leads/Programme Directors an opportunity to apply via an open competition for up to £30,000 to deliver a tailored programme of activities to meet the academic career development needs of the cohort of individuals their GHR Programme is supporting to pursue an academic research career.

Further information regarding the scheme, funding available and associated eligibility criteria can be found in the guidance notes.

 This funding opportunity has now closed.
Global Research Professorships

The Global Research Professorship award is NIHR’s flagship career development award. It aims to fund research leaders to promote effective translation of research and to strengthen research leadership at the highest academic levels.

The Global Research Professorship programme supports outstanding academics to work at professorial level. The programme funds researchers undertaking research that aims to specifically and primarily benefit people in LMICs eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA).

NIHR Global Research Professorships are fixed term five-year appointments (a maximum of 60 months) offering funding of up to £2 million, including a leadership and development programme and several support posts.

This scheme is open to all professions and all higher education institutions (HEI) based in the UK (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland). Institutions can nominate health, public health and social care researchers and methodologists with an outstanding research record of clinical and applied health, public health or care research and its effective translation for improved health and welfare of people in LMICs.

    Find out more about Global Research Professorships

Co-funded career development awards

We partner with the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, Wellcome and other organisations to offer career development opportunities for global health researchers. These opportunities offer support for researchers at all stages of their career, from masters students to established investigators.
Awards for early career researchers

Our partnership with the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene offers small grants for early career researchers in tropical medicine or global health.

Funding awards of up to £5,000 are available to early career researchers in LMICs to undertake clinical or scientific research and/or fieldwork in tropical medicine or global health. Funding is generally available once a year in spring.

    Read about the researchers awarded funding in the 2020 round

Research fellowships

The NIHR-Wellcome Global Health Research Partnership offers a range of career development awards for researchers in the UK and in LMICs.

We co-fund three schemes for early-career researchers in LMICs:

    International Master’s Fellowships
    International Training Fellowships
    International Intermediate Fellowships

Funding awards of up to £800,000 are available twice a year.

These are supplemented by three schemes for more established researchers in either LMICs or the UK:

    Investigator Awards in Science
    Senior Research Fellowships
    Collaborative Awards in Science

Funding awards of up to £4 million are available three times a year.

Some of the research areas of particular relevance to these schemes include mental health, multimorbidity, non-communicable diseases, nutrition and snakebites.