The Public Health Research (PHR) Programme funds research to generate evidence to inform the delivery of non-NHS interventions, intended to improve the health of the public, and reduce inequalities in health.

 

 

 

The Public Health Research (PHR) Programme is funded by the NIHR, with contributions from the CSO in Scotland, Health and Care Research Wales, and the HSC R&D Division, Public Health Agency in Northern Ireland.

The primary aim of the programme is the evaluation of practical interventions which have the potential to be delivered at scale, in order to generate evidence to support public health decision making and lead to sustainable population level change. We will fund both primary research (mainly evaluative, but also some preparatory research) and secondary research (evidence synthesis); precise methods will need to be appropriate to the question being asked, and the feasibility of the research.

Our research serves a variety of key stakeholders including: decision-makers in local government; primary care organisations and other local public services; third sector organisations; relevant national agencies (e.g. NICE) concerned with improving public health and reducing health inequalities; researchers; public health practitioners, and the public.

We fund research through our commissioned and researcher-led workstreams. The researcher-led workstream offers the flexibility for ambitious evaluations of public health interventions. If a case can be made for its potential value to public health, scientific quality and value for money, there is no upper limit to the amount of funding that can be applied for. Applications can be made at any point, with three cut-off dates throughout the year. Multi-factorial research will be considered.

All of our funded projects are eligible for publication in the NIHR Journals Library. This open access resource is freely available online, and provides a full and permanent record of NIHR-funded research.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us
    Local Authority research
    Fast-track scheme

Scope

Our scope is multi-disciplinary and broad, covering a wide range of interventions that improve public health.

The programme funds research to generate evidence to inform the delivery of non-NHS interventions, specifically, we provide new knowledge on the benefits, costs, acceptability and wider impacts of non-NHS interventions intended to improve the health of the public, and reduce inequalities in health.

Proposed primary outcome measures should always be health-related, unless otherwise specified in a commissioning brief.

Project examples include studies evaluating interventions to reduce air pollution and model scenarios, evaluations of transport and traffic initiatives; evaluations of interventions to tackle obesity such as Football Fans in Training, supermarket placement, takeaway food outlet policy and an evaluation of an early years nutrition and physical activity intervention; evaluating the health impacts of Universal Credit; evaluations of community based initiatives such as Age-friendly environments and community health assets; the evaluation of changes to alcohol outlet density and opening hours on alcohol harm; evaluation of tobacco policies and initiatives e.g. the impacts of e-cigarette legislation on young people’s use of e-cigarettes and the health benefits of smokefree prisons.

Applicants wishing to evaluate public health interventions that sit both inside and outside of the NHS, or on the boundary, are encouraged to discuss their proposals with PHR Programme staff at an early stage.
Large-scale studies

The PHR Programme is also keen to see applications for large-scale evaluation studies with the potential for national reach. This means primary research projects which:

    address an issue of major strategic public health importance, with the cost in line with the significance of the problem to be investigated
    are likely to lead to changes in practice that will have a significant impact on a large number of the population across the UK
    aim to fill a clear 'evidence gap', and likely to generate new knowledge
    have the potential for findings that are generalisable and transferable
    bring together a team with strong expertise and track record across the full range of relevant disciplines

If you are planning a project of this type you may wish to refer to the MRC Complex Interventions Framework.
What we fund
The PHR Programme will support

    Applications focused on intervention development where an intervention already exists, and for which there is an evidence base, but it requires adaptation to situations such as a new context (e.g. a change in setting or target behaviour or client group) or amalgamation of separate, defined interventions so that they complement each other.
    Where a compelling case is made, we will also fund work to establish feasibility and to pilot a definitive intervention. However, any work related to optimising an existing intervention prior to evaluation, where research has shown that the intervention performs sub-optimally and there are specific remediable aspects of the intervention, such as the delivery method or the timing of elements, must not exceed 6-months in duration.

