

The NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB) programme funds health, public health and social care research covering a wide range of health service challenges.

The aim of the programme is to fund topics and research methodologies that increase the effectiveness of NHS services, provide value for money and benefit patients. RfPB also runs an annual competition specifically for social care proposals - Research for Social Care (RfSC).

The Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB) programme supports research that is concerned with the day-to-day practice of health service and social care staff. Research proposals should have a clear trajectory towards benefiting the health or wellbeing of patients and users of the NHS and social care services.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us

Scope
What do we fund?

RfPB is researcher-led and does not specify topics for research. The RfSC call funds research which generates evidence to improve, expand and strengthen the way adult social care is delivered for users of care services, carers and the public. 
How long and how much?

The funding available for individual projects is up to £350,000 for up to 36 months. Feasibility studies are expected to cost less than £250,000, and proposals that will generate results that might be useful for more downstream investigations are expected to cost less than £150,000.

For more information on applying to RfPB, please see our supplemental guidance notes on funding limits,  finance, tier 3 funding, applying for feasibility studies and further evaluations of established interventions. Please note the tier system does not apply for RfSC funding.

When is funding available?

RfPB has three funding opportunities a year. RfSC has one opportunity per year. See the dates for our funding competitions.

How do I apply?

RfPB has a two stage application process. Please see the applicant guidance for stage 1 and applicant guidance for stage 2, and the supporting information, to find out more. You can also browse the FAQ's. 

Research proposals are submitted to RfPB online through the Research Management System. We supply template application forms for stage 1 (.DOCX - Word) and stage 2 (.DOCX - Word) to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of submission.
What we fund

For application and selection criteria for Research for Social Care, please see the RfSC page.

The Research for Patient Benefit programme will support:

    Research into the provision and use of NHS services.
    Effectiveness and cost effectiveness evaluations of interventions.
    Research that examines the resource use of alternative means for healthcare delivery.
    Feasibility research to support applications for major awards to other funders.
    Development and refining of new interventions, scales or outcome measures.
    Research to explore the potential for improving patient health and wellbeing through needs assessments, methods development and exploratory studies.
    Evidence synthesis and systematic reviews.
