

NIHR Programme Development Grants (PDG) are designed to enable a research team to carry out targeted preparatory work to develop a competitive Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) funding application. They can also be used to further develop an existing or ongoing PGfAR-funded programme of research. 
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us

Scope

Programme Development Grants (PDGs) are available for researchers to undertake preparatory work to develop a future programme of research. Broad ranging development work is permitted, with less detail required about the future programme of research.

PDGs are also available for researchers to develop and enhance the quality and value of an existing or ongoing Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) award. Applications for such PDGs are only permitted from applicants whose PGfAR contracts are finishing within 12 months or have finished in the past 18 months.
Stream A - Pre-Programme Grant

For researchers to undertake preparatory work to develop a future programme of research. Broad ranging development work is permitted, with less detail required about the future programme of research.
Stream B - Post-Programme Grant

For researchers to develop and enhance the quality and value of an existing or ongoing Programme Grant for Applied Research (PGfAR) award. Applications for such PDGs are only permitted from applicants whose PGfAR contracts are finishing within 12 months or have finished in the past 18 months.
How long and how much?

Individual grants can be up to £150,000 for between 12 and 24 months. The amount of funding awarded, however, is determined by the scale and nature of the research or development activity to be conducted.

If applying to stream A, applicants can choose whether to enter directly into stage 1 or stage 2 of a future PGfAR funding call.

There is no formal expectation or guarantee that the recipients of stream A PDGs will be successful in obtaining a subsequent Programme Grant award in the future. All future applications for PGfAR will be judged on their own merits against the published criteria.
When is funding available?

PDGs has three funding opportunities a year that typically launch in March, July and November. Find out the dates of upcoming funding opportunities.
How do I apply?

PDGs have a one stage application process. We offer applicant guidance for both types of PDG: stream A guidance and stream B guidance. Applicants should also consult the supporting information for applicants.

Potential applicants may find it helpful to read the scoring criteria for each stream that results in a successful application:

    Stream A scoring criteria
    Stream B scoring criteria

Proposals are submitted online through the Research Management System. We supply a template application form to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of submission. (.DOCX - Word)

For help and advice on applying for a PDG please refer to the guidance for applicants and supporting information for applicants. If you have any further queries, please contact the Programme Grants team at programme.grants@nihr.ac.uk.
What we fund

Stream A Programme Development Grants (PDGs) will support preparatory work for a future programme of research, including but not limited to:

    team strengthening and collaboration building
    selection of outcome measures
    methodological work or method development (e.g. development of new scales or outcome measures)
    observational or epidemiological work to obtain information that would place the future programme on firmer foundations
    evidence synthesis
    development of arrangements for patient, service user, carer and public involvement
    stakeholder engagement.

Stream B PDGs will also support further development of an existing or ongoing programme of research, including but not limited to:

    enhanced dissemination (e.g. knowledge mobilisation activities, engagement etc)
    additional IP exploitation or commercialisation activities
    additional secondary data analyses to answer new research questions* (i.e. not questions included in the initial programme)
    follow on work to explore other perspectives (e.g. social care) arising from the programme
    endeavours to facilitate implementation.

*It is important that, where relevant, all primary analyses are completed and made available in PDG applications requesting funding for dissemination or implementation activities.

