

The Research and Innovation for Global Health Transformation (RIGHT) programme funds interdisciplinary applied health research in low and middle income countries (LMICs) on areas of unmet need where a strategic and targeted investment can result in a transformative impact.

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

The Research and Innovation for Global Health Transformation (RIGHT) programme funds applied health research for the primary and direct benefit of people in low and middle income countries (LMICs). 

RIGHT aims to strengthen capacity for research and boost knowledge exchange through funding equitable partnerships between researchers in the UK and those in LMICs.

The programme promotes interdisciplinary approaches to research, including, but not limited to, collaborations between clinical, health economics, statistics, qualitative and social sciences disciplines.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Calls
    Contact us

Scope

RIGHT funds research on preventing ill health and optimising disease management in LMICs that are eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA). To date, the programme has funded research on:

    multimorbidity
    mental health
    epilepsy
    infection-related cancers
    severe stigmatising skin diseases

Funding amount and duration

RIGHT typically awards funding of £1-5 million (maximum of £5 million) for research with a duration of 3-5 years. Funding awards are made to partnerships led by two joint lead investigators, one from an LMIC institution and one from a UK institution.

    NIHR RIGHT funding has allowed us to establish a multidisciplinary team of enthusiastic African clinical academic researchers to innovate clinical practice and strengthen diagnostics services for children with virus-related lymphoma, as well as increase translational research capacity.
    Anna Schuh, Associate Professor at the University of Oxford and Chief Investigator of the SEREN initiative

RIGHT runs one or two funding calls a year on commissioned topics in applied health research. See the dates for our funding calls.
How to apply

RIGHT holds two-stage funding calls. Stage 1 is a shortlisting process that involves submitting an outline application. Stage 1 applicants invited to submit to stage 2 are required to produce a full application that then undergoes peer review. 

An independent international Funding Committee considers eligible applications at stage 1 and stage 2.

Research proposals should be online through the Research Management System. 

    Read more about the application process

Proposal and Partnership Development Awards

An important aspect of RIGHT funding is the partnership building between researchers in the UK and those in LMICs. Proposal and Partnership Development Awards (PPDAs) of up to £10,000 are available to support partnership development during preparation of a RIGHT stage 2 application.

All RIGHT applicants that are successful at stage 1 and are invited to submit a stage 2 application are eligible to apply for a PPDA. 
What we fund

RIGHT funds research proposals from researchers in UK-based (England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) and LMIC higher education institutions and research institutes. 

Applications must include a lead, co-applicant or joint lead applicant from a country eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA) funding and relevant to the research proposal. Applications must demonstrate how the research proposal meets ODA compliance criteria.

Find out more about ODA eligibility

RIGHT will support:

    Applied health research that is of primary and direct benefit to people and patients in LMICs
    Interdisciplinary applied research teams with demonstrable expertise and a track-record of ensuring clinical research is transferred into benefits for patients
    Proposals that incorporate research questions around gender, age, social barriers to health, economic impact and equity that demonstrate strong partnerships with institutions in LMICs
    Proposals that demonstrate joint leadership between the LMIC and UK research partners and have clear plans to engage with other relevant partners. 
    Proposals that include relevant engagement with policy makers, patients, the public, civil society organisations, communities and charities
    Proposals that include PhD and master’s students based in LMICs.
