

NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) funds collaborative, multidisciplinary programmes of applied research to solve health and social care challenges.

Programme Development Grants (PDG) are available for researchers to carry out targeted preparatory work to strengthen a future full PGfAR application (stream A) and to enhance the outcomes of existing PGfAR awards (stream B).

The aim of NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (PGfAR) is to deliver research findings that will lead to clear and identifiable patient, service user or carer benefits, typically through promotion of health and wellbeing, prevention of ill health, and optimal disease management (including safety and quality).

PGfAR is researcher led and does not commission research on specific topics. However, research proposals must be in an area of priority or need for the NHS, public health or the social care sector, with particular emphasis on health and social care areas that cause significant burden where other research funders may not be focused, or where insufficient funding is available.

The awards fund NHS, public health and social care practitioners to work together with academic partners to tackle health and social care problems, and provide some stability of funding to support the long-term development of top quality applied research groups.

In recognition of the complex biopsychosocial influences at play in many multiple long-term conditions, programmes seeking to address the integration of health and social care to improve patient, service user and carer outcomes, and those that include work packages aimed at tackling the social care dimension of healthcare problems, are particularly welcome.

Programmes that use diverse methodological approaches to demonstrate patient, service user or carer benefits at an individual or population level, and/or include work packages specifically aimed at addressing important methodological issues in applied health and social care research methodology, are also encouraged.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Contact us

Scope

PGfAR funds programmes of applied research that generally comprise a number of high quality interrelated projects, usually described in separate work packages, that form a coherent theme, where added value is gained from the combination of the various strands of research.

The research programme should:

    address stated local and/or national priorities in health, public health or social care 
    be conducted in and/or recruit from geographical locations of high health and care need, where possible
    clearly demonstrate how patients, service users and/or carers have been involved and engaged with the programme
    use a range of multidisciplinary and methodological approaches
    demonstrate the value of a treatment, package of care or service improvement on clinically relevant outcomes for those programmes addressing health issues. Intermediate outcome measures will only be acceptable where there is convincing evidence that these have strong relationship with clinical outcomes. Similar criteria should be applied to public health and social care studies, where the outcomes should be justified in terms of demonstrating benefits linked to population health, or to service users and carers
    make a stepped change to practice and/or outcomes. Proposals that comprise application of existing interventions to new patient, service user or carer groups, or the wider public; that are only an incremental development on current practice; or are unlikely to have general application or uptake, are unlikely to be competitive
    address the integration of aspects of health and social care to improve patient, service user or carer outcomes
    include clear plans for implementation, knowledge mobilisation and dissemination

All NHS bodies and other providers of NHS services in England may apply for programme awards, in collaboration with an appropriate academic partner or partners. For more information see our tips for applying to PGfAR.
How long and how much? 

The amount awarded and the length of the funding period depends on the nature of the proposed work. Funding in excess of £2.5 million beyond 6 years will be unusual. 

It is anticipated that programmes using novel designs will facilitate shorter, more efficient, less expensive programmes. As a guide, such programmes might be delivered over 3 years with costs of £1-1.5m.

Potential applicants can undertake appropriate preparatory work through a Stream A Programme Development Grant to strengthen their future programme.
When is funding available?

PGfAR has three funding opportunities a year that typically launch in February, June and October. See the dates for our PGfAR funding competitions.
How do I apply?

PGfAR has a two stage application process. Please see the  applicant guidance for stage 1 and applicant guidance for stage 2, and the supporting information, to find out more.  For detailed finance guidance, please see the detailed budget section in the guidance for stage 2 applications (section 11). Potential applicants can seek advice on their proposal from the programme team through the pre-submission enquiry form.

Research proposals are submitted to PGfAR online through the Research Management System. We supply a template application form for stage 1 (.DOCX - Word) and a template application form for stage 2 (.DOCX - Word) to help researchers prepare their proposal ahead of submission.

Apply now

 
What we fund

PGfAR will support:

    applied health research and social care research, including: health services research; public health research; social care research; economic evaluations; and modelling (e.g. decision analytic studies).
    research that is tractable, i.e. implementable, within the NHS, public health or social care sector
    qualitative research, applied epidemiology, observational research, use of existing data from previous research, or routinely collected health and care data to demonstrate patient, service user or carer benefits
    as part of a broader programme of work, pilot or feasibility studies for large, definitive trials, whose funding would be sought from elsewhere
    evidence synthesis and systematic reviews, and methodological research
