

The Global Health Research Centres programme funds research-driven partnerships between institutions in low and middle income countries (LMICs) and in the UK. 

The centres undertake high quality research and strengthen LMIC institutional capacity to undertake, manage and disseminate high-quality applied health research. 

NIHR statement on ODA funding for its Global Health Research Portfolio

The Global Health Research Centres programme funds high quality applied health research in LMICs and supports the development of a critical mass of sustainable, competitive research capacity. 

By delivering high quality research evidence and strengthening research capacity at all levels, our Global Health Research Centres will improve health outcomes for people in LMICs and support sustainable growth of the LMIC research ecosystem.
On this page:

    Scope
    What we fund
    Our people
    Funding calls
    Contact us

Scope

The Global Health Research Centres programme funds ambitious, transformative, innovative and collaborative consortia of research institutions in the UK and in LMICs that are eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA). High quality research and research capacity strengthening in LMICs are equally essential components of the programme. 

Each funding call addresses an area where there is a need for coordinated, high quality research in LMICs to increase the global evidence base. The first funding call will fund and designate NIHR Global Health Research Centres in non-communicable diseases.

Centres also have a focus on capacity building and training in partner LMIC institutions, through:

    strengthening career pathways for researchers, from masters students to senior academics
    developing and retaining a trained and networked global cohort of experts and future research leaders
    supporting the training and development of research managers and other non-academic staff.

Funding amount and duration

Funding awards of up to £10 million over five years (with an option to add two extra years) are available to consortia led by a director based in an LMIC and made up of one UK institution and up to four LMIC institutions. 
How to apply

The Global Health Research Centres programme holds two-stage funding calls. See the dates of our funding calls.

At stage 1, applicants submit an outline of the proposed research plan. Applicants who are successful at stage 1 are invited to submit a stage 2 application, which requires more detailed information.

An independent international Funding Committee reviews, scores and shortlists eligible applications at stage 1 and stage 2.

Research proposals should be submitted online through the Research Management System. We supply guidance for applicants on filling in the stage 1 application form and the financial information required as part of an application.

    Read more about the application process

What we fund

Global Health Research Centres are consortia of up to five institutions, led by a director based in an LMIC lead institution in a country eligible for Official Development Assistance (ODA). Consortia should have a UK joint lead administering institution. 

The lead LMIC institution and UK join lead are expected to have an established track record in the topic for the call. The LMIC partner institutions - of which there can be up to three - do not need to have a strong track record in the relevant research topic, but should be keen to build expertise in the area.

Applicants must demonstrate how their proposal meets ODA compliance criteria.

Find out more about ODA eligibility

The key criteria for Global Health Research Centres programme are:

    Research capacity strengthening
    Research excellence
    Relevance
    Leadership
    Equity and equitable partnerships
    Governance
    Stakeholder and community involvement
    Impact and sustainability

The Global Health Research Centres programme will support applications that:

    Propose institutional level applied health research projects or programmes that address the challenges faced by people and patients in LMICs.
    Incorporate research questions around gender, age, social barriers to health, economic impact and equity that are directly relevant to the LMICs involved in the consortium.
    Include multidisciplinary and/or interdisciplinary applied health researchers from the UK and LMIC institutions, with relevant expertise and a track record (for the Joint Lead Institutions) of ensuring research is transferred into benefits for patients. 
    Demonstrate equity and collaboration in programme leadership, decision making, capacity strengthening, governance, appropriate distribution of funds, ethics processes, data ownership and dissemination of findings. 
    Include relevant engagement with policy makers and practitioners, patients, the public, civil society organisations, communities and charities.
    Propose a coherent and sustainable plan for capacity and capability strengthening, at all levels and particularly at the institutional level, across centre institutions.
    Demonstrate the strength of UK-LMIC institutional commitment to the research partnership.
