
Accelerator science

The Science and Technology Facilities Council hosts record-breaking accelerators that are pushing the boundaries in many areas of science and technology and is investing in ways to make them more powerful and sophisticated.
Funding councils: STFC
Antimicrobial resistance

The aim of this programme is to support and enable UK researchers to carry out unique research, in collaboration with colleagues around the world, to improve our understanding of antimicrobial resistance.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCMRCNERCSTFC
Astronomy and space science

STFC’s astronomy and space science programme supports scientists investigating some of the biggest questions in astrophysics, cosmology and solar system science.
Funding councils: STFC
Computational science

The Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) provides academics and industry with world-class support and facilities in computational science that help them to address some of the biggest challenges in science.
Funding councils: STFC
Greenhouse gas removal from the atmosphere

The aim of this programme is to carry out research to better understand the options for removing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, with a focus on the environmental, technical, economic, governance and wider societal aspects in a national and international context.
Funding councils: EPSRCESRCNERCSTFC
Health and wellbeing research – mental health

The research councils have a collective interest in mental health research. The Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) fully supports this and will work, both independently and with the other research councils, to ensure mental health research remains part of our broader strategies.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCESRCMRCNERCSTFC
Nuclear physics

The Science and Technology Facilities Council nuclear physics programme supports research in four broad areas, nuclear structure, nuclear astrophysics, hadronic physics and theory.
Funding councils: STFC
Particle astrophysics

The Science and Technology Facilities Council particle astrophysics programme is helping to answer some of the fundamental questions of the Universe. It focuses on gravitational waves, gamma ray astronomy, neutrinos and the search for dark matter.
Funding councils: STFC
Particle physics

STFC supports UK physicists working on particle physics projects across the world. It includes funding STFC facilities such as the particle physics department at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and contributing to international facilities such as CERN.
Funding councils: STFC
UKRI impact acceleration accounts

UKRI impact acceleration accounts (IAAs) are strategic awards providing funding to research organisations to use creatively for a wide range of impact activities.
Funding councils: AHRCBBSRCEPSRCMRCSTFC
