Now accepting applications for funding
The Climate Action and Awareness Fund (CAAF) has opened a call for proposals (CFP) under its Support to Canadian Think Tanks and Academic Institutions priority. The deadline for submitting a project under this CFP is July 18, 2022 at 3 p.m. EDT. Visit the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS) page for more information.

Environment and Climate Change Canada hosted a webinar session to share information on the Support to Canadian Think Tanks and Academic Institutions call for proposals. To access a recording of the webinar, please send a request to fasc-caaf@ec.gc.ca.

On this page
Introduction
Available funding
Applying for funding
Frequently asked questions
Contact us
Past calls for proposals
Climate Action Fund
News releases
Success stories
Introduction
The Climate Action and Awareness Fund (CAAF) will invest up to $206 million over five years to support Canadian-made projects that help to reduce Canada’s greenhouse gas emissions. The Climate Action and Awareness Fund is designed to support projects that can create middle class jobs for Canadians who work in science and technology, academia, and at the grassroots community level. These projects are critical as we continue to build a sustainable net-zero emissions economy by 2050.

The Climate Action and Awareness Fund has three main priorities:

support youth climate awareness (call for proposals closed summer 2020) and community-based climate action (1st call for proposals closed fall 2020; 2nd directed call for proposals closed winter 2022)
support climate research at Canadian think tanks and in academia (call for proposals open from June 13, 2022 to July 18, 2022)
advancing climate change science and technology (call for proposals closed spring 2021)
The Climate Action and Awareness Fund was created with contributions from the Climate Action Fund, as well as a significant investment from the Environmental Damages Fund.

Available funding
Funding for the Climate Action and Awareness Fund comes from the Environmental Damages Fund. The Environmental Damages Fund provides a mechanism for directing funds received as a result of fines, court orders, and voluntary payments to priority projects that will benefit Canada’s natural environment. The Environmental Damages Fund helps to ensure that environmental good follows environmental harm by supporting projects with measurable outcomes in Canadian communities.

Current Call for Proposals: Support to Canadian Think Tanks and Academic Institutions
The current call for proposals is seeking proposals from Canadian think tanks and academic institutions. The objective of this call for proposals is to support projects that will identify, accelerate, and evaluate climate mitigation solutions and strategies that will contribute to achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in Canada.

Net-zero research projects could include activities related to literature reviews and knowledge synthesis, qualitative or quantitative analysis, model development, engagement with experts and stakeholders, or community-based research, aimed at building knowledge on net-zero at the national, provincial, territorial, regional, or local scales, including findings specific to Indigenous communities.

The research themes for this call for proposals were identified by the Net-Zero Advisory Body (NZAB). The NZAB, established under the Canadian Net-Zero Emissions Accountability Act (CNZEAA), is a group of experts from across Canada mandated to provide the Minister of Environment and Climate Change with independent advice with respect to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. Funded projects under this call for proposals will catalyze new analysis and support broader conversations on net-zero in support of the NZAB’s mandate.

Eligible recipients
To be eligible for funding under this call for proposals, lead applicants must fall under one of the following categories of not-for-profit organizations:

Universities and other academic institutions;
Non-government organizations (NGO, e.g., think tanks and research institutions); or
Indigenous organizations
Lead applicants are responsible for submitting their proposal through the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System, and for negotiating and signing a Funding Agreement, if selected. Lead applicants are encouraged to consider collaborative proposals and partner with other academic institutions or organizations, which could include federal, provincial, territorial, or municipal government partners.

Support to Canadian Think Tanks and Academic Institutions - Call for proposals research themes
The projects funded by this call for proposals must fall under one or more of the following themes:

Theme 1: Defining the future systems required for net-zero
Proposals should define and evaluate the future systems that Canada will require to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. The analysis should be multidimensional and consider economic and technical feasibility, social acceptability, and the scale and pace of transformation required. If using economic modelling, proposals should indicate how they plan to address assumptions behind their models. Results should inform recommendations on pragmatic emissions reductions opportunities and tools within or across regions or sectors that are required to transform systems to better respond to societal needs and meet net-zero emission goals. Also of interest are proposals that analyze and quantify the costs of inaction or delayed action on net-zero.

Theme 2: Obstacles on the pathways to net-zero
Proposals should advance an understanding of points of resistance or friction that are expected to impede progress on the most likely pathways to net-zero by 2050 for specific economic sectors (as defined in Canada’s National Inventory Report). These could include barriers related to human behavior and psychology, finance and investment, infrastructure and data gaps, or political and geopolitical dynamics. The results should inform recommendations to mitigate or overcome these obstacles and advance progress along the most likely pathways to net-zero.

Theme 3: Distributional impacts on the pathways to net-zero on workers, and their families and communities
Proposals should advance analysis on the time scale and geographic distribution of labour impacts in sectors affected by the likely pathways to net-zero. This could include analysis on length of employment, income, and retirement patterns in specific sectors. The results should deepen understanding of real-world impacts on workers, families, and communities at the local and regional scale and how governments can influence these outcomes. Also of interest are proposals that focus on the geographic distribution, skills requirements, and quality of alternate employment options (e.g., impacts on income, pensions, and benefits) and their implications for families and communities. The results should inform recommendations to minimize adverse impacts and maximize positive impacts through pathways to net-zero.

Theme 4: Motivating net-zero action
Proposals should contribute to a broader understanding of the social, economic, environmental, and technological opportunities for Canada in a net-zero future. The results should inform the development of strategies to support the realization of such opportunities, with the ultimate objective of a net-zero future in which all Canadians feel they belong. Of particular interest are proposals that explore effective strategies and techniques to motivate individuals, businesses, and governments to envision their role in a net-zero future and identify creative actions to realize it. Also of interest are proposals that examine how governments at all levels can work together effectively to ensure an equitable geographic and sectoral distribution of net-zero opportunities.

Funding amount
This call for proposals will provide between $250,000 and $1 million per project for the total project duration to eligible organizations over a maximum of two years.

More information
For more information on this call for proposals and how to apply, please visit the applicant guide.

Applying for funding
Applications are only accepted through the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System. The call for proposals will open on June 13, 2022 and will close July 18, 2022 at 3 p.m. EDT.

For detailed application instructions, visit the GCEMS application instructions page.

Frequently asked questions
FAQ page (Questions and answers last updated on May 17, 2022.)

Contact us
All inquiries related to the Climate Action and Awareness Fund may be sent to: fasc-caaf@ec.gc.ca.  

Past calls for proposals
Youth climate awareness call for proposals
Community-based climate action call for proposals
Advancing climate change science and technology call for proposals
Climate Action Fund
Since 2018, the Climate Action Fund has supported projects that raise awareness of climate change and build capacity in order to increase climate actions that contribute to Canada’s clean growth and climate change plan (the Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change).

In September 2020, the Climate Action Fund, in collaboration with the Environmental Damages Fund, launched a call for proposals under the Climate Action and Awareness Fund. This call for proposals closed on October 26, 2020.