Overview
The Salish Sea Marine Emission Reductions Fund will help reduce air pollutant and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from domestic marine vessels or fleets operating in the Canadian portion of the Salish Sea. The Salish Sea is located in the Pacific Northwest waters of British Columbia in Canada.

Application deadline
Start date: February 1, 2021
End date: April 30, 2021

Objective
The goal of this funding is to reduce air pollutant and GHG emissions from domestic marine vessels or fleets operating in the Salish Sea. The Salish Sea Marine Emission Reductions Fund only applies to marine vessel related activities in the Canadian portion of the Salish Sea. The Salish Sea is located in the Pacific Northwest waters of British Columbia in Canada.

There are two streams for applicants to submit their proposals. Applicants are encouraged to submit proposals in accordance with the stream that best applies. A combination of streams is possible.

Eligible applicants
Applicants must fall under one of the following categories:

Domestic or international not-for-profit organizations, such as charitable and volunteer organizations, professional associations, and non-governmental organizations
Domestic or international Indigenous organizations, governments, individuals, boards, commissions, communities, associations and authorities
Domestic or international research, academic and educational institutions
Canadian or foreign individuals
Domestic or international for-profit organizations, such as small businesses with less than 500 employees, companies, corporations, industry associations and agricultural organizations
Local organizations such as community associations and groups, seniors’ and youth groups, and service clubs
Provincial, territorial, municipal and local governments and their agencies (e.g. Crown corporations, Conservation Authorities)
Geographic location
Projects must focus on reduction of marine vessel emissions in the Canadian portion of the Salish Sea.

Eligible projects
There are two streams for applicants to submit their proposals. Applicants are encouraged to submit proposals in accordance with the stream that best applies. A combination of streams is possible.

Stream 1: Study
The objective of this stream is to fund a study to investigate the best way for a Canadian marine vessel or fleet operating in the Salish Sea to reduce its air pollutant emissions. This stream is for applicants that have not yet determined how to reduce emissions from their operations or that require more information before purchasing a technology.

This stream is to fund a feasibility study, consultant’s report, technical review, design, and/or proof of concept (or other type of study within the eligibility requirements of the program). The study can include a review of literature. However, it cannot solely be a literature review, as the study must include specific information on how the Canadian marine vessel or fleet operating in the Salish Sea can reduce their emissions. This funding may also be used to source engineering specifications or drawings and to source financial quotes for potential emission reduction technology. All of the sourced information must be included with the final study.

The following is a list of example study topics:

Cleaner fuels
Electrification or hybridization
Accelerated turnover resulting in emission reductions
Hull or propeller modifications to improve efficiency
Route optimization technology
Associated land based infrastructure
This list is not exhaustive and applicants may identify other study topics in their application, as long as they align with the goal of the Fund and its eligibility requirements described in the Applicant Guide. ECCC will determine eligibility of the proposed project, per the Program Terms and Conditions.

The eligible recipient would ideally have technical expertise to conduct studies. If a consultant is hired, then this consultant’s expertise must be provided with the study.

All studies must include information on air pollutant emission reductions as well as the impacts or considerations for how the project would also reduce GHG emissions.

For details on eligible expenditures see the Applicant Guide.

The application must demonstrate all costs for the project, including any in-kind contributions or other funding sources. See the Applicant guide for more details.

Stream 2: Investment and Installation of Emission Reduction Technology
The objective of this stream is to fund the purchase and installation of technology, when the applicant knows which technology or means will reduce emissions from its operation.

The following is a list of project categories that are expected to reduce marine air pollution from vessels in the Salish Sea. This list is not exhaustive. Applicants may identify other activities in their application, as long as they align with eligible project categories, requirements and objectives. ECCC will determine eligibility of the proposed project, per the Program Terms and Conditions.

Retrofits
Domestic marine vessel or fleet retrofits, including:

Repowering to cleaner / more efficient engines
Fuel switching to lower emitting sources
Installation of emission treatment or control systems, such as exhaust gas recirculation, selective catalytic reduction, or diesel oxidation catalyst
Electrification/hybridization
Domestic marine vessel or fleet switch to electric, hybrid, or zero-emission technology
Hull or propeller modifications
Modifications which reduce drag, improve propeller performance
Operational practices
Installation of software or technology to improve vessel routeing
Training on more efficient / lower emitting vessel operational practices
Recipients would ideally own and/or operate a Canadian marine vessel or marine vessel fleet(s) in the Canadian portion of the Salish Sea. However, other circumstances may be evaluated.

All projects must include information on air pollutant emission reductions and the impacts or considerations for how the project would also reduce GHG emissions.

The application must outline all costs for the project, including any in-kind contributions or other funding sources.

Funding available
Per fiscal year, funding will not exceed $250,000 per non-profit recipient, and $200,000 per for-profit recipient. The Fund may be awarded to one or multiple applicants; however, the total across all recipients will not exceed $250,000 per fiscal year. Applicants are encouraged to secure project support through partner funds.

To apply
When you are ready to apply, submit your project proposal through the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System.

The deadline for submitting a project is 3:59 p.m. EST on Friday April 30, 2021.