Overview
We provide financial support to non-profit and non-government organizations for Canadian communities to take on local action-based projects that produce measurable, positive effects on the environment and to build the capacity of communities to sustain these activities in the future.

Objectives
EcoAction funds projects that:

lead to tangible environmental results
engage the community to improve the environment
increase environmental awareness
increase capacity in communities
result in sustainable outcomes and engagement following project completion
Funding priorities
This year, funding is available for new projects that engage Canadian communities and clearly demonstrate measurable, positive results related to the following key environmental priority: Fresh Water.

Your project must address the following priority result:

Canadians contribute to improving freshwater quality through actions that reduce harmful substances in freshwater and/or restore and protect freshwater ecosystem health.
Geographic location
Projects may have a local, regional or national scope. Project activities must take place in Canada. For examples of previously funded projects, see our map of funded projects.

Eligible applicants
Non-profit and non-governmental groups and organizations are eligible to receive funding, examples include:

environmental groups
community groups
youth and seniors groups
community-based associations
service clubs
Indigenous organizations
The following groups are ineligible, but are encouraged to partner with non-profit and non-governmental groups and organizations to support a project proposal:

businesses
educational institutions
C3 organizations
crown corporations
individuals
municipal, provincial, territorial, and federal governments
Eligible projects
Projects must always address the environmental priority of the call for proposals and clearly demonstrate that activities:

lead to measurable results for the environment at the end of the project
provide opportunities for community members to take action
produce positive environmental results
lead to results and engagement that will be sustained after the completion of EcoAction funding
As indicated in the program's list of performance indicators (available via the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS) portal), all projects must also include:

at least one environmental indicator; and,
at least one capacity building indicator.
Additionally, a minimum of at least 50% of the total value of your project must come from sources other than the Government of Canada.

Eligible project costs
The following project costs are eligible under EcoAction:

human resources, including salaries and benefits
contractors
management and professional services (e.g., accounting, audit, liability insurance costs that are directly attributed to carrying out the project, monitoring, legal or other professional fees translation)
travel and field expenses (based on Government of Canada rates)
materials and supplies
communication, production, distribution and printing costs
equipment purchases or rental fees
vehicle rental and operation costs
a reasonable share of overhead and/or administrative costs and rent that is directly attributed to program delivery
Available funding
The maximum EcoAction funding is $100,000 per project; the minimum funding amount request is $25,000 per project. The maximum project duration is 36 months.

A minimum of 50% of the total project value must come from sources other than the Government of Canada. Consequently, EcoAction can fund a maximum of half a project’s expenses provided that no other Government of Canada funds are used. An exception to this requirement are funds from programs for Indigenous Peoples within Indigenous Services Canada. These funds may be included as matching funding for the project.

Please note: Funding from employment support programs within Employment and Social Development Canada are also exempt from this requirement; however, they cannot be used as matching funding for the project.

Please contact your Regional Office for more information.

Applying for funding
Your project must address the following priority result: 

Canadians contribute to improving freshwater quality through actions that reduce harmful substances in freshwater and/or restore and protect freshwater ecosystem health.
Preference will be given to proposals that engage Indigenous Peoples, youth or small businesses. All proposals must fully meet program requirements.

Please refer to the Applicant's Guide for more details and how to submit an application to the GCEMS portal online.

Evaluation of applications
EcoAction project funding decisions are based on an annual open call for proposals process. If received by the deadline, your completed application will go through a three-stage review process:

Administrative review to confirm all eligibility criteria. Ineligible projects will be notified at the end of this stage.
Technical review by subject-matter experts to confirm scientific and technical feasibility of your project.
Regional review and assessment of eligible projects, including budgets, workplans, and communication and evaluation plans.