Overview
The Atlantic Ecosystems Initiatives (AEI) provides funding for projects that improve the health, productivity and long-term sustainability of freshwater ecosystems in Atlantic Canada, resulting in collaborative action and positive environmental impacts. 

Any proposal submitted to other ECCC funding programs must be for activities that are different from those submitted under the AEI based on the “best fit” for the project.

Call for Proposals start date: February 9, 2022
Call for Proposals deadline: March 16, 2022

Objectives
Projects must improve the assessment, monitoring, modeling and/or mitigation of multiple stressors and their cumulative effects on freshwater quality in at least one of the priority ecosystems as identified by the AEI. Projects are required to focus on specific stressors:

nutrients, and/or
bacteria and/or
plastics
Eligible projects
Funding will be provided for projects that:

enhance integrated ecosystem planning and decision-making
increase ecosystem knowledge and science
undertake actions to conserve, restore and enhance the health of priority freshwater ecosystems in Atlantic Canada.
Planning and decision-making
Projects will address complex water quality issues through integrated planning and collaborative decision-making that will lead to action and measureable environmental results. Eligible activities include:

expansion of existing and/or the development of new integrated strategies, plans, frameworks and action plans
adaptation planning
integration of data/information
Knowledge and science
Projects will increase knowledge to better understand and address issues that affect the health of Atlantic Canada’s priority freshwater ecosystems. Projects will involve the collection, interpretation, analysis and sharing of information to support informed decisions and action. Eligible activities include:

GIS mapping
vulnerability, risk, stressor, and/or threat assessments
measurement, analysis or modelling of ecosystem changes or trends
measurement, assessment, monitoring or modeling of multiple stressors and their cumulative effects
assessment of baseline environmental conditions
development of scientific tools, techniques, indicators and approaches
Action
Projects will involve water quality conservation, restoration and enhancement as part of an overall strategic plan. Projects must demonstrate an ecosystem-based approach and show how the work is part of an overall strategic plan for the watershed.

Eligible activities include:

best management practices to improve water quality (such as riparian enhancement or erosion control)
reducing water quality stressors or impacts
Eligible applicants
Only Atlantic Canadian-based organizations are eligible to apply and include:

Indigenous governments and organizations
non-governmental organizations
coalitions and networks of organizations
research and academic institutions
Although business/industry, federal, provincial, and municipal governments are not eligible funding recipients, they are encouraged to partner with applicants on projects.

Eligible project costs
human resource costs, including salaries and benefits
contract and professional services (e.g., accounting, liability insurance costs, legal or other professional fees)
travel and field costs
material and supplies
printing, production, communication, distribution
equipment purchase or rental
vehicle rental and operation
translation
a reasonable share of overhead and/or administration costs directly attributed to the project (no more than 15% of ECCC funding)
Ineligible projects
The following types of projects will not be considered for funding:

monitoring and data collection as stand-alone projects (these projects must be part of an overall trend analysis, or integrated planning process);
projects that have a single issue ‘action’ focus such as stream clean-ups, attending conferences, training, workshops and meetings;
projects which extend beyond the coastal zone in priority ecosystems; ocean-based and fish-based ecosystem projects are not eligible; and
infrastructure projects are not eligible.
Geographic location
AEI funding consideration will be given to projects that address water quality issues within one or both of the following priority Atlantic Canadian watersheds:

Wolastoq / Saint John River Watershed

As a priority river basin for ECCC, the Wolastoq / Saint John River is an international and interprovincial waterway that flows 673 km through Maine, New Brunswick and Quebec. The watershed, covering 55,000 square kilometers, falls within the traditional territory of the Maliseet people, and was designated a Canadian Heritage Rivers System in 2013.

The ecological health of the watershed is currently affected by many cumulative factors. Water quality is being negatively affected by various land uses (i.e. agricultural, industrial, and urban development) which can be further impacted by flow regulation like dams, and climate change. Water quality issues of concern include:

localized high nutrient levels leading to eutrophication and toxic algae blooms;
elevated coliform levels;
oxygen depletion;
wastewater;
sediments; and
the introduction of invasive species.
Various federal, provincial, state, and Indigenous organizations, as well as non-government stakeholders are working on the river. With focused support for planning, science and action projects to improve water quality, AEI will work towards improving the health of this important ecosystem.

Southern Gulf of St. Lawrence Watershed

As a priority ecosystem for ECCC, the Southern Gulf of St. Lawrence Watershed drains through Quebec, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and northeastern Nova Scotia, including Cape Breton. The Southern Gulf region is an important ecological, economic and socio-cultural region of North America. Communities along the Gulf coast depend on its resources for income and their quality of life. The Gulf region supports key ecosystems such as salt marshes, beaches, estuaries and forests.

There are many stressors in the Southern Gulf region that affect its ecological health. Localized issues of concern include:

high nutrient and toxics levels;
elevated coliform levels;
sediments;
wastewater contamination; and
coastal erosion.
There are various federal, provincial, municipal, Indigenous organizations, as well as non-government stakeholders working within the Southern Gulf region. With focused support for planning, science and action projects to improve water quality, AEI will work towards improving the health of this important ecosystem.

Eligible funding
The current request for proposals is for projects that will begin on or after April 1, 2022 and completed no later than March 31, 2025. Projects are eligible for funding up to a maximum of $200,000 per project and must be completed within 3 years. Funding for the project must be spent within Atlantic Canada. At least 30% of the total project funding must come from sources other than the Government of Canada, in the form of cash or in-kind contributions or a combination of both.

In-kind support may include donations of:

equipment, materials and/or office space
volunteer time for project activities, coordination or professional services
expertise from consultants, elders or academics
any other donated goods or services that contribute to covering the costs of the project
Employment support programs within Employment and Social Development Canada and programs for Indigenous peoples within Indigenous Services Canada are exempt from this requirement.

Reporting Requirements
You will be expected to report on performance indicators, as they apply to your project, in your project progress reports. One or more indicators must be selected from each of the two following lists.

Indicator list #1: One or more is required. Select only those that apply to your project.

area covered by the project (total area in hectares that the project activity covers)
number of partners or organizations participating/contributing to the project
number of joint strategies, plans or frameworks completed/ implemented
number of common scientific protocols developed or adopted
number of maps created using Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
number of threats, stressors, risks identified in the project area
number of tools, techniques, indicators developed to assess ecosystem health
total number of samples collected
total number of sites at which samples were collected
total number of recommended actions from existing or new management plans implemented
total area where measures to address threats, stressors or risks were implemented
number of Best Management Plans developed/ implemented leading to environmental improvements
Indicator list #2: One or more is required. Select only those that apply to your project.

Number of water quality parameters assessed (i.e., physical, chemical and/or biological)
Number of mitigation measures implemented and/or improved to avoid or minimize the impacts of stressors (e.g., nutrients, bacteria and plastics) on water quality
Number of collaborative partnerships built
Applying for funding
When you are ready to apply, visit the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS) application instructions page.

The deadline for submitting a project is 4:00 pm Atlantic Standard Time (AST) on the date indicated.