Overview
The protection of species at risk in Canada depends on a meaningful collaboration with Indigenous peoples and organizations. The Aboriginal Fund for Species at Risk (AFSAR) was established in 2004 and supports the development of Indigenous capacity to participate actively in the implementation of the Species at Risk Act (SARA). The Act recognizes the important role that Indigenous peoples play in wildlife conservation and the need to consider Indigenous knowledge in the assessment of which species may be at risk, as well as in the development and implementation of protection and recovery measures.  

Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) administers AFSAR funding that supports terrestrial stewardship projects and Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) is responsible for administering AFSAR aquatic stewardship projects.

Applicants wishing to pursue aquatic AFSAR projects should contact the appropriate aquatic regional coordinator at DFO.

Objectives
The objectives of AFSAR are to:

support and promote the conservation, protection and recovery of target species and their habitats on Indigenous lands or lands where traditional food, social, and ceremonial activities are carried out by Indigenous peoples and
support the engagement and leadership of Indigenous peoples in the conservation and recovery of the target species, their habitats and SARA processes
Expected results
The expected results of AFSAR are:

Canada’s wildlife and habitat is conserved and protected
Canada’s species at risk are recovered, and
Indigenous peoples are engaged in conservation
Eligible recipients
All Indigenous communities and organizations located in Canada are eligible for funding, including:

Indigenous not-for-profit and for profit organizations
territorially based Indigenous groups
district councils, Chiefs councils and Tribal councils
traditional appointed advisory committees
Indigenous corporations
Indigenous partnerships and groups
Indigenous research, academic, and educational institutions
Indigenous cultural education centres
Indigenous land/resource management authorities
Indigenous co-operatives
Indigenous societies
Indigenous boards and commissions
other organizations (Indigenous and non-Indigenous) if mandated by one of the above eligible recipients
Geographic location
Projects must take place on:

reserves and lands set aside for the use and benefit of Indigenous peoples under the Indian Act or under section 91 (24) of the Constitution Act of 1867, or
other lands directly controlled by Indigenous peoples (e.g. Métis Settlement lands, and land claim/treaty settlement lands), and lands set aside in the Yukon and Northwest Territories pursuant to Cabinet Directive, circular No.27 or
lands where traditional food, social, and ceremonial activities (harvesting or other) are carried out by Indigenous peoples
Eligible projects
In order to be eligible, proposed projects must target the following species:

species listed on Schedule 1 of SARA (except those listed as extirpated), and/or
species that have been assessed by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) as endangered, threatened, or of special concern but have not been listed on Schedule 1 of SARA.
Up to 20% of the available funds will be directed towards projects targeting species that are not listed on Schedule 1 of SARA but assessed by COSEWIC as endangered, threatened or special concern. The majority of program funds (i.e., at least 80%) will be directed to projects targeting species listed on Schedule 1 of SARA.  

Additionally, AFSAR projects that target at least one species from the above two categories may also include proposed actions that proactively prevent species, other than species at risk, from becoming a conservation concern.

Activities eligible for funding include:

habitat protection and securement
habitat improvement
species and habitat threat abatement
conservation planning
surveys, inventories and monitoring
project evaluation
documentation and use of Indigenous knowledge (IK)
outreach and education
Activities other than those listed above may be considered, subject to approval.

Application instructions
On-line application system
Applications are no longer available, at the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS) is now closed.
The previous online application system will no longer be used to accept new applications; however, it will remain available for reporting purposes for previously approved projects.
Related links
Program Overview: Aboriginal Fund for Species at Risk
Application Technical Guidelines for GCEMS.
Application deadline
The application period for projects commencing in 2022-2023 was December 1, 2021 to January 25, 2022 , and is now closed.

In accordance with ECCC’s Grants and Contributions Service Standards, applicants receive an acknowledgement that their application was submitted successfully within five (5) working days of submitting an application. Please contact ­ec.sgesc-gcems-sgesc-gcems.ec@ec.gc.ca and copy your regional AFSAR coordinator if you submitted an application but did not receive an acknowledgment.

Program priorities
In previous years, funding priority went to projects targeting specific regional lists of species. For the 2022-2023 call for proposals, there were no species identified by the AFSAR program; proposals may have targetted any:

species listed on Schedule 1 of SARA (except those listed as extirpated), and/or
species that have been assessed by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) as endangered, threatened, or of special concern but have not yet been listed on Schedule 1 of SARA.
Other funding considerations
AFSAR projects will have a higher chance of success if they:

target multiple species and focus on ecosystem-based recovery initiatives
involve collaboration among multiple partners with priority being given to projects that involve a larger number of confirmed partners
include the consideration of Indigenous knowledge (IK) for application in SARA processes and the planning and implementation of national recovery documents
support the enhancement of wildlife that are of cultural and/or socio-economic importance to local communities
implement high priority activities described in established recovery documents, established wildlife and/or habitat conservation plans
mitigate the threats of climate change to target species; and/or
target priority sectors and/or threats as identified in the Pan-Canadian Approach to Transforming Species at Risk Conservation in Canada
Range of funding
The minimum funding request for new and multi-year projects is $10,000 and project funding usually ranges from $10,000 to $50,000 per project, per year. Projects may extend over more than 1 year to a maximum of 3 years.

Indigenous applicants will be required to obtain a minimum of 0.20:1 from non federal sources matching contributions ($0.20 confirmed match for $1 AFSAR funding).

Non-Indigenous applicants will be required to obtain a minimum of 1:1 from non federal sources matching contributions ($1 confirmed match for $1 AFSAR funding).

Leveraging can take the form of either financial or in-kind resources (equipment loans, donations of building materials and volunteer labour).

Selection criteria
Projects will be selected based on the following criteria:

whether they meet all eligibility requirements (applicants, species and activities)
the extent to which they address AFSAR program priorities
ability to leverage a minimum of 0.20:1 on funds for Indigenous applicants from non federal sources ($0.20 confirmed match for $1 AFSAR funding) and
a minimum of 1:1 on funds for non-Indigenous applicants from non federal sources ($1 confirmed match for $1 AFSAR funding)
Evaluation process
Each proposal undergoes a technical evaluation by the regional AFSAR coordinator to confirm that it meets eligibility requirements. Proposals meeting the eligibility requirements are then prioritized for funding based on alignment with program objectives, including program priorities, and program and project administration criteria. ECCC will aim to have AFSAR funding decisions available by spring 2022.

Contact us
For general ECCC or Canadian Wildlife Service inquiries, please contact 1-800-668-6767 or ec.enviroinfo.ec@ec.gc.ca.

If you have any further questions, please contact us at AFSAR-FAEP@ec.gc.ca or contact your regional AFSAR coordinator. Please note that regional AFSAR coordinators are available to answer questions during regular business hours, local time.