Overview
The Environmental Damages Fund (EDF) is a specified purpose account administered by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) to direct funds received from fines, court orders and voluntary payments to priority projects that will benefit Canada’s natural environment.

Objective
The purpose of any contribution to the EDF is to achieve restoration of damage to the natural environment and wildlife conservation, in a cost-effective way.

Funding categories
Fines directed to the EDF are used to fund projects that focus on the following four categories in order of priority:

restoration
environmental quality improvement
research and development
education and awareness
Geographic location
Projects must be undertaken within Canadian provinces and territories. Fund Use Requirements accompany each available funding amount and may include prioritized geographic regions.

For examples of previously funded projects, see the EDF project map.

Eligible applicants
Eligible applicants are not-for profit:

non-government organizations (e.g. environmental community groups)
universities and academic institutions
Indigenous organizations
provincial, territorial and municipal governments
Individuals, businesses, and/or other federal departments or agencies are not eligible to apply for funding but are encouraged to partner with eligible applicants. Offenders are not eligible to apply directly or to partner with eligible groups, for fines or monetary payments they have made that were directed to the EDF.

Eligible projects
Priority is given to projects that restore the natural environment and conserve wildlife, followed by:

environmental quality improvement initiatives
research and development on environmental restoration and improvement
education and awareness on issues affecting the health of the natural environment
There is no maximum project duration.

EDF funding is available for projects that meet the following criteria:

address one or more of EDF’s four priority areas noted above
satisfy all Fund Use Requirements as listed on the EDF Available Funds page
are scientifically sound and technically feasible
are cost-effective in achieving goals, objectives and results
can measure results using EDF performance indicators
show that the environment will benefit from the project
demonstrate that the applicant possesses or has access to necessary partnership, experience, knowledge and skills required to undertake the project
involves individuals and communities with local experience and knowledge
While matching funds are not required, evidence of other funding sources such as matching contributions and the respective amounts, or demonstration of the applicant’s ability to raise funds from sources other than the federal government in a past project, will be considered an asset at the proposal evaluation stage.

Ineligible projects and activities include:

those activities required by law and/or mandated by other levels of government
containment and clean-up of environmental spills
restoration of contaminated sites
infrastructure, particularly related to municipal, provincial and federal government program areas
lobbying or advocacy activities
recreation and tourism projects or beautification initiatives
preparation of formal curriculum materials
core organization functions and activities such as meetings, maintenance and administration; however, project-specific administrative support is eligible
annual or regular organization events/campaigns
expenses to attend general conferences and workshops
projects and activities underway
continuation of projects previously funded by the EDF
projects outside of Canada
Please note that this is not a comprehensive list. If you are unsure about any of the examples listed above or the eligibility of your project and activities, please contact the ECCC office in your region.

EDF Calls for Proposals are competitive processes; please clearly explain all details and expected results. The level of detail provided in your application must support the complexity of your project.

In addition, your project must include at least one of the EDF’s performance indicators and a clear target value for each chosen indicator.

Eligible project costs
Costs related to the following types of expenses are eligible under the EDF program:

human resource costs, including salaries and benefits
travel costs not to exceed Treasury Board approved rates
material and supplies costs
printing and production costs
communications and distribution costs
equipment rental or purchase
vehicle rentals and operational costs
translation costs
liability insurance costs that are directly attributed to carrying out the project
a reasonable share of overhead and/or administrative costs and rent that is directly attributed to carrying out the project, as negotiated with the office in your region
any GST/HST that is not reimbursable by Revenue Canada and any PST not reimbursable by the provinces
Please refer to the National Joint Council’s website for your provincial/territorial kilometric rates.

Available funding
The EDF does not currently have any open funding opportunities.

Available funding varies according to the number of court awards and voluntary contributions directed to the EDF. In its sentencing decision, the court may recommend the recipient, location and scope of a project funded by the fine. This information is considered in the assessment of the fine and in the development of the Fund Use Requirement. Details on available funds and Fund Use Requirements can be found on the available funds page and in the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS).

Applying for funding
Project proposals are accepted through GCEMS. 

Please refer to the EDF Applicant Guide for more details and how to submit an application to the GCEMS portal.

Visit the GCEMS application instructions page for technical assistance documents, tutorials, and support throughout your application preparation.

Evaluation of applications
Your application is reviewed to verify eligibility and to assess technical and scientific merit. All project proposals are subject to the same evaluation criteria.

If your project application is approved in principle, you will be sent a notification letter and will be contacted by an ECCC Project Manager to negotiate a funding agreement that outlines the terms and conditions of the funding. Federal Members of Parliament and/or their teams may be advised about the approval in principle of a project and may be provided with information provided in your application including applicant’s name, project title, project description, project location, funding amounts, and contact information.

If your application is not approved, you will also be informed of this decision in writing.