Overview
The Habitat Stewardship Program (HSP) was established in 2000. It provides funding for projects submitted by Canadians that contribute directly to the recovery objectives and population goals of species at risk listed on Schedule 1 of the Species at Risk Act (SARA) and that prevent others from becoming a conservation concern. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) administers HSP funds that support terrestrial stewardship projects while Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) is responsible for administering the HSP for aquatic stewardship projects.

Applicants wishing to pursue aquatic HSP projects should contact the appropriate aquatic regional coordinator at DFO.

Objectives
The objectives of this program are to:

support habitat projects that benefit species at risk and that prevent others from becoming a conservation concern
enable Canadians to become actively involved in stewardship projects for species at risk which will result in tangible and measurable conservation benefits; and
improve the scientific, sociological and economic understanding of stewardship as a conservation tool
Expected results
The expected results of the HSP are:

Canada’s wildlife and habitat is conserved and protected
Canada’s species at risk are recovered; and
Indigenous peoples are engaged in conservation
Eligible recipients
Canadian non-governmental organizations
community groups
Indigenous organizations and communities
individuals
private corporations and businesses
educational institutions
provincial, territorial and municipal governments
provincial Crown corporations
Federal departments, federal agencies and federal Crown corporations are not eligible to receive HSP funds.

Geographic location
Project activities must take place on:

private land
provincial Crown land
lands under the administration and control of the Commissioner of Yukon, the Northwest Territories or Nunavut, or
Indigenous land
reserves and lands set aside for the use and benefit of Indigenous peoples under the Indian Act or under section 91 (24) of the Constitution Act,1867, or
other lands directly controlled by Indigenous peoples (e.g., Métis Settlement lands, and land claim/treaty settlement lands), and lands set aside in the Yukon and Northwest Territories pursuant to Cabinet Directive, circular No.27, or
lands where traditional food, social, and ceremonial activities (harvesting or other) are carried out by Indigenous peoples
Eligible projects
In order to be eligible, proposed projects must target the following species:

species listed on Schedule 1 of SARA (except those listed as extirpated), and/or
species that have been assessed by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) as endangered, threatened, or of special concern but have not been listed on Schedule 1 of SARA
Up to 20% of the available funds will be directed towards projects targeting species that are not listed on Schedule 1 of SARA but assessed by COSEWIC as endangered, threatened or special concern. The majority of program funds (i.e., at least 80%) will be directed to projects targeting species listed on Schedule 1 of SARA. Priorities within these eligible species are listed below. Please consult this list to determine if your proposal could have a higher chance of success.
 
Activities eligible for funding include:

habitat protection and securement
habitat improvement
species and habitat threat abatement
conservation planning
surveys, inventories and monitoring
project evaluation
outreach and education
Activities other than those listed above may be considered, subject to approval.

Application instructions
On-line application system
Applications are no longer available, as the Grants and Contributions Enterprise Management System (GCEMS) is now closed.
The previous online application system will no longer be used to accept new applications, however it will remain available for reporting purposes for previously approved projects
Related links
Program Overview:  Habitat Stewardship Program for Species at Risk
Application Technical Guidelines for GCEMS.
Application deadline
The application period for projects commencing in 2022-2023 was open from December 1, 2021 to January 25, 2022 and is now closed.

In accordance with ECCC’s Grants and Contributions Service Standards, applicants will receive an acknowledgement that their application was submitted successfully within five (5) working days of submitting an application. Please contact sgesc-gcems-sgesc-gcems@ec.gc.ca and copy your regional HSP coordinator if you have submitted an application but have not received this acknowledgment.

Program priorities
The 2022-2023 call for proposals prioritized projects targeting regionally identified priority species (see Table 1).

Regionally identified priority species were selected in parallel with the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Pan-Canadian Approach to transforming Species at Risk Conservation in Canada. This new Pan-Canadian Approach represents a shift from a single-species approach to conservation to one that focuses on priority places, species, sectors and threats, through more multi-species and ecosystem-based efforts and collaborative partnerships. The priority species listed below were selected based on their likelihood to benefit from stewardship activities and include those that may not benefit from other ECCC funding sources.

Table 1: Priority species by CWS region
Although the HSP funding priorities in 2022-2023 were species specific, it is recognized that actions for one species may benefit multiple species and this should have been highlighted and noted in the application. Please see other funding considerations below the table.

Table 1
Region	Priority species
Atlantic Region

Newfoundland and Labrador

Nova Scotia

Prince Edward Island

New Brunswick

Eastern Mountain Avens
Leach’s Storm-Petrel
Monarch and SARA-listed pollinators
Piping Plover melodus subspecies
SARA-listed bat species
SARA-listed cyanolichen species
SARA-listed forested wetland bird species (Canada Warbler, Olive-sided Flycatcher, Rusty Blackbird)
SARA-listed reptile species
SARA-listed swallow, swift and nightjar species
SARA-listed thrush species
Quebec Region

American Ginseng
Bank Swallow
Chimney Swift
Forked Three-awned Grass
Least Bittern
Spring Salamander, Adirondack/Appalachian population
SARA-listed bat species
SARA-listed freshwater turtle species
SARA-listed grassland bird species (Bobolink, Eastern Meadowlark)
Victorin’s Gentian
Western Chorus Frog, Great Lakes / St. Lawrence - Canadian Shield population
White Wood Aster
Woodland Caribou, Atlantic-Gaspésie population
Yellow Rail
Ontario Region

Bank Swallow
Blanding’s Turtle, Great Lakes/St. Lawrence population
Cerulean Warbler
Eastern Foxsnake, Carolinian Population
Eastern Foxsnake, Great Lakes / St. Lawrence population
Grasshopper Sparrow pratensis subspecies
Louisiana Waterthrush
Monarch
Piping Plover circumcinctus subspecies
Red-headed Woodpecker
Spiny Softshell
Jefferson Salamander and Unisexual Ambystoma, Jefferson Salamander dependent population
Western Chorus Frog, Great Lakes / St. Lawrence – Canadian Shield population
Whip-poor-will
Prairie Region

Manitoba

Saskatchewan

Alberta

Bank Swallow
Buffalograss
Chestnut-collared Longspur
Chimney Swift
Dakota Skipper
Fascicled Ironweed
Grizzly Bear, Western population
Little Brown Myotis
Loggerhead Shrike excubitorides subspecies
Monarch
McCown’s Longspur
Piping Plover circumcinctus subspecies
Poweshiek Skipperling
Species at Risk found in the Interlake area in Manitoba, or in sand dune/sand prairie habitat in Saskatchewan
Whitebark Pine
Pacific Region

British Columbia

Great Basin Spadefoot
Lewis’s Woodpecker
Little Brown Myotis
Macoun’s Meadowfoam
Northern Myotis
Oregon Forestsnail
Pacific Water Shrew
Purple Sanicle
Sharp-tailed Snake
Western Painted Turtle, Intermountain - Rocky Mountain population
Western Painted Turtle, Pacific Coast population
Western Rattlesnake
Western Screech-Owl kennicottii subspecies
Western Screech-Owl macfarlanei subspecies
Williamson’s Sapsucker
Yellow Montane Violet praemorsa subspecies
Yellow-breasted Chat auricollis subspecies, Southern Mountain population
Northern Region

Yukon

Northwest Territories

Nunavut

There were no specific priority species for the 2022-2023 call for proposals in the Northern Region.

Other funding considerations
HSP project proposals may also have a higher chance of success if they:

target multiple species and demonstrate a focus on ecosystem-based recovery initiatives
involve collaboration among multiple partners with priority being given to projects that involve a greater number of confirmed partners
implement high priority activities described in established recovery documents, established wildlife and/or habitat conservation plans
mitigate the threats of climate change to the target species; and/or
target priority sectors and/or threats as identified in the Pan-Canadian Approach to Transforming Species at Risk Conservation in Canada
Range of funding
The minimum funding request for new and multi-year projects is $25,000 and project funding usually ranges from $25,000 to $100,000 per project, per year. Projects may extend over more than 1 year to a maximum of 3 years.

Non-Indigenous applicants will be required to obtain a minimum of 1:1 matching contributions from non-federal sources ($1 confirmed match for $1 HSP funding).

Indigenous applicants will be required to obtain a minimum of 0.20:1 matching contribution from non-federal sources ($0.20 confirmed match for $1 HSP funding).

Leveraging can take the form of either financial or in-kind resources (equipment loans, donations of building materials and volunteer labour).

Selection criteria
Projects will be selected based on the following criteria:

whether they meet all eligibility requirements (applicants, species, and activities)
the extent to which they address HSP program priorities and ability to leverage a minimum of 1:1 on funds from non-federal sources for non-Indigenous applicants ($1 confirmed match for $1 HSP funding) and a minimum of 0.20:1 on funds from non-federal sources for Indigenous applicants ($0.20 confirmed match for $1 HSP funding)
Evaluation process
Each proposal undergoes a technical evaluation by the regional HSP coordinator to confirm that it meets eligibility requirements. Proposals meeting the eligibility requirements are then prioritized for funding based on alignment with program objectives, including program priorities, and program and project administration criteria. ECCC will aim to have HSP funding decisions available by spring 2022.

Once departmental approval in principle has been confirmed, applicants (both successful and unsuccessful) will be notified in writing. If your project proposal submission is approved in principle, you will be contacted to negotiate a Contribution Agreement, which outlines the terms and conditions of funding. Federal MPs and/or their team may be advised about the approval in principle of a project and may be provided with information provided in this application including applicant’s name, project title, project description, project location, funding amounts and contact information.

Funding is conditional on the successful negotiation of a Contribution Agreement between the applicant and ECCC. We work towards completing this process within 65 working days.