Overview
The Increasing Knowledge on Plastic Pollution (IKPP) Initiative is a program that aims to address knowledge gaps related to the potential human health effects and ecotoxicology of plastics in Canada.  It is implemented by Environment and Climate Change Canada, in collaboration with Health Canada, It aims to increase capacity, leverage collaborative partnerships and generate knowledge in support of Canada’s Plastics Science Agenda (CaPSA) with a particular focus on research gaps identified in the Draft Science Assessment of Plastic Pollution.

Application deadline
Start date: January 30, 2020
End date: March 27, 2020

Objective
To support the implementation of CaPSA and address the research gaps identified in the Draft Science Assessment of Plastic Pollution, projects funded by this initiative must seek to expand understanding of the effects of plastic pollution on human health and the environment. Scientific research funded by this initiative must contribute to improving the information base for assessing the risks of plastic pollution.

Eligible applicants
Eligible groups include:

domestic not-for-profit organizations, such as charitable and volunteer organizations, professional associations, and non-governmental organizations
domestic Indigenous organizations, governments, individuals, boards, commissions, communities, associations, and authorities:
indigenous not-for-profit organizations
district councils, Chiefs councils and Tribal councils
indigenous research, academic and educational institutions
domestic research, academic, and educational institutions
local organizations such as community associations and groups, seniors’ and youth groups, and service clubs
The following applicants are not eligible:

domestic for-profit organizations, such as small businesses, companies, corporations, industry associations, and agricultural organizations and
provincial, territorial, municipal, and local governments and their agencies (e.g. Crown corporations, conservation authorities)
Although business/industry, federal, provincial and municipal governments are not eligible funding recipients, they are encouraged to partner with applicants on projects.

Geographic location
All projects must take place within Canadian provinces and territories.

Eligible projects
All projects must relate to the potential human health effects and ecotoxicology of plastics in Canada.

Stream 1:  Human health effects

Projects will address questions related to the human health hazards associated with plastics. They will involve the collection, interpretation, analysis and sharing of information to support informed decisions and actions. Eligible activities include:

researching the uptake, translocation and fate of microplastics in the gastrointestinal and respiratory track including the physical characteristics that influence bioavailability, tissue distribution and toxicity
researching the potential effects of microplastics-associated biofilms in drinking water
researching the effects of plastics as vectors for chemical or biological contaminant exposure for plastic-derived chemicals (e.g. leached chemicals) and/or environmental pollutants
Stream 2: Ecotoxicological effects

Projects will increase knowledge on the biological, chemical and physical stressors introduced to ecosystems by the presence of microplastics and/or plastics-related contaminants. They will involve the collection, interpretation and analysis of data. Eligible activities include:

Analysing the biological, chemical or physical stressors introduced to ecosystem components by these contaminants to identify thresholds needed to disrupt biochemical, physiological or behavioral interactions between plastic, the environment, and organisms
researching the interactions between terrestrial fauna environments and microplastics
Funding available
Projects are eligible for funding up to a maximum of $200,000 total per project and must be completed within 2 years and by March 31, 2022. A total of $2.2 million in funding is available.