Overview
The Community Interaction Program (CIP) is a financial assistance program promoting community projects aimed at conserving and improving the St. Lawrence ecosystem.

Part of the St. Lawrence Action Plan 2011-2026, the program is implemented by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) and Quebec's Ministère de l’Environnement et de la Lutte contre les changements climatiques (MELCC).

Contact email
Interactions_Communautaires_Quebec_Community_Interaction@ec.gc.ca

Objectives
The Community Interaction Program supports community projects that seek to achieve at least one of the following objectives: conserving biodiversity, promoting sustainable use, and improving water quality of the St. Lawrence ecosystem.

Expected results
restoration, protection, cleanup and improvement of habitats of the St. Lawrence ecosystem
involving the public in implementing environmental projects                   
information and public awareness of environmental issues
Eligible applicants
Any not-for-profit, non-governmental organization that has been legally constituted for at least one year and that has a branch in Quebec and any Indigenous communities located in Quebec.

Geographic location
The target area is defined by the St. Lawrence River, meaning its water, bed, shores, coastline, wetlands, barachois, islands, archipelagos and fluvial lakes.

More specifically, this covers the area between Cornwall and Gaspé on the South shore, including the Quebec portion of Chaleur Bay, the Magdalen Islands, and the area between Carillon and Blanc Sablon on the North shore, including Anticosti Island and the Saguenay River.

This area also encompasses the main tributaries and sections of secondary tributaries that are essential to the lifecycle of species dependent on the St. Lawrence. Intervention in the secondary tributaries must have a direct connection with the species in question or with agricultural nonpoint source pollution.

Eligible projects
public awareness projects arising from a specific environmental issue that target a particular group in the community and lead to concrete short-term actions
study projects pertaining to a specific environmental issue with the aim of identifying concrete actions to be taken in the field                                                        
study/action projects pertaining to a specific environmental issue with the aim of identifying concrete actions to be taken in the field, followed by the implementation of appropriate actions
biodiversity protection projects that promote the sustainable use of the St. Lawrence
restoration projects arising from a specific environmental issue directly related to the St. Lawrence
Range of funding
CIP’s contribution could reach a maximum of 70% of the total value of eligible expenses up to:

$25,000 for study projects
$100,000 for awareness-raising projects
$200,000 for study/action, restoration and protection projects  
Points to consider
matching funds can be in cash or in kind. However, for projects with a total value equal or above $35,000, matching funds in cash must be at least 10% of the total contribution allocated by ECCC and the MELCC
see the Project Presentation Guide to know the eligibility criteria of the CIP
annually, deadlines for submitting funding applications are usually set at March 1 and October 15