Accelerating Canada’s Low Carbon Future
The Smart Renewables and Electrification Pathways Program (SREPs) is a $964 million program which provides $922 million over four years for smart renewable energy and electrical grid modernization projects. This program will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by encouraging the replacement of fossil-fuel generated electricity with renewables that can provide essential grid services while supporting Canada’s equitable transition to an electrified economy.

SREPs by the numbers as of February 15, 2022:
365
Projects
Registered

110
Applications
Received

72
Projects
Approved*

$922 million
Funding
Approved*

*Includes capacity building projects and pending project approvals

Transforming Canada’s Electrical Grid and Supporting Renewables
SREPs will provide direct financial support to eligible renewable energy and grid modernization projects during the construction phase. Projects must use market ready technologies and apply workplace equity, diversity, and inclusion components.

What projects are eligible?
SREPs can support projects under the following streams:

Established Renewables (examples: solar photovoltaic, onshore wind, small hydro)
Emerging Technologies (examples: geothermal, energy storage)
Grid Modernization (examples: micro-grids, virtual power plants, and hardware/software to enable grid services)
How are projects chosen?
All projects that meet SREPs requirements, as defined in the Applicant Guide, are eligible for funding. Proponents are also encouraged to review the frequently asked questions (FAQs) for additional guidance. The Program will continuously accept project registrations and applications until SREPs funds are fully committed. SREPs approves projects on a first ready for construction, first served basis.

A portion of SREPS funding will be reserved for Indigenous-led projects, which may qualify for higher levels of project support. Up to $50,000 in Grant funding is available for Indigenous Engagement and Consultations activities. To request an application form, please email the program inbox.

Capacity Building Stream
SREPs also offers a Capacity Building Stream to support the equitable transition to a cleaner electrical grid, helping communities and organizations acquire the knowledge and tools needed to develop renewable energy and grid modernization projects.