Transportation accounts for approximately 25%  of Canada’s greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), of which almost half comes from passenger cars and light trucks. The Government of Canada is steadfast in its conviction that the electrification of Canada’s light-duty vehicles as well as a shift to cleaner fuels are key to the decarbonisation of our transportation sector. In fact, Canada’s strengthened climate plan, A Healthy Environment and A Healthy Economy, highlighted that building a stronger, cleaner transportation system as Canada recovers from the pandemic, is an investment that will pay off — delivering economic and environmental benefits for decades to come.

This is why the Government of Canada has set a mandatory target for all new light-duty cars and passenger trucks to be zero-emission by 2035, accelerating Canada’s previous goal of 100% sales by 2040.  Driving down transportation emissions is critical to achieving the Government’s more ambitious climate change commitments and is consistent with the global shift toward zero-emission vehicles. While the Government of Canada has already invested over $1 billion to support increased zero-emission vehicle adoption, it will pursue a combination of investments and regulations to help Canadians and industry in this transition.

The Zero Emission Vehicle Infrastructure Program (ZEVIP) is a $680 million initiative ending in 2027 and its objective is to address the lack of charging and refuelling stations in Canada; one of the key barriers to ZEV adoption, by increasing the availability of localized charging and hydrogen refuelling opportunities where Canadians live, work, and play.

This funding will be delivered through cost-sharing contribution agreements for eligible projects that will help meet the growing charging and refuelling demand.

NOTICE
The Request for Proposals (RFP) focusing on public places, on-street, multi-unit residential buildings, workplaces and vehicle fleets is now open until August 11, 2022 (23:59 Eastern Daylight Time).

The program targets multiple infrastructure streams as described below.

Public Places
The program will support electric vehicle charging infrastructure deployment in parking areas intended for public use. Parking areas can be privately or publicly owned and operated.

Examples of public places include, but are not limited to: service stations; retail; restaurants; arenas; libraries; medical offices; park and ride; etc.

On-Street
The program will support electric vehicle charging infrastructure deployment on-street. On-street charging is considered charging infrastructure for public use and is managed by local governments.

Workplaces
The program will support zero-emission infrastructure deployment at workplaces. A workplace is defined as a location where employees perform duties related to a job. For the purpose of the program, the charging or hydrogen refuelling infrastructure must be primarily used by the employees.

Charging or hydrogen refueling infrastructure installations at a private residence even if a business is registered at the same address, are not included in this category.

Multi-Unit Residential Buildings (MURBs)
The program will support electric vehicle charging infrastructure deployment in multi-unit residential buildings (MURBs). MURB charging is defined as infrastructure in parking spaces where people live. For the purpose of the program, to be designated as a MURB the building must have a common entrance and include a minimum of three (3) storeys or a footprint greater than 600 m2.

Commercial and Public Fleets (on-road)
Commercial and public fleets are composed of on-road vehicles and are managed by common ownership. These fleets are used in support of organizational or business operations and activities.

On-road commercial and public fleets include but are not limited to: light, medium or heavy-duty vehicles, taxies, last-mile delivery vehicles, or municipal utility vehicles.

How much can you receive?
NRCan’s contribution through this Program will be limited to fifty percent (50%) of Total Project Costs up to a maximum of five million dollars ($5,000,000) per project and up to a maximum of two million dollars ($2,000,000) per project for Delivery Organizations. Applications from Ultimate Recipient to Delivery Organizations will be limited to less than $100,000.

The maximum funding per type of infrastructure is as follows:

Type of Infrastructure	Output	Maximum Funding	Maximum Funding for Indigenous businesses and communities
Level 2 (208 / 240 V) connector	3.3kW to 19.2kW	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $5,000 per connector*	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $7,500 per connector*
Fast charger	20kW to 49kW	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $15,000 per charger	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $22,500 per charger
Fast charger	50kW to 99Kw	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $50,000 per charger	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $75,000 per charger
Fast charger	100 kW to 199 kW	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $75,000 per charger	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $112,500 per charger
Fast charger	200 kW and above	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $100,000 per charger	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $150,000 per charger
Hydrogen refuelling station	Dispensing at 350 bar minimum for medium and heavy-duty vehicles and 700 bar minimum for light-duty vehicles	Up to 50% of total project costs, to a maximum of $1,000,000 per site	Up to 75% of total project costs, to a maximum of $1,500,000 per site