About the program
The Clean Energy for Rural and Remote Communities (CERRC) program provides funding for renewable energy and capacity building projects and related energy efficiency measures in Indigenous, rural and remote communities across Canada.

The program is working to reduce the use of fossil fuels for heating and electricity by increasing the use of local renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. This creates environmental, social and economic benefits to support healthier and more sustainable communities.

Investing in clean energy solutions in Indigenous communities is a small but important link to energy security, reconciliation, self-determination and economic development for Indigenous Peoples.

Changing how we work to support community priorities
To improve community access to federal clean energy funding and resources, multiple departments are changing how we work.

What does this mean for applicants?
 One application that you can submit to either CERRC or the Northern Responsible Energy Approach for Community Heat and Electricity program (REACHE).
 Simplified project reporting
 More flexible Terms + Conditions
 An Indigenous Council to guide our work starting in fall 2022
 On-going conversations and information sessions to improve program delivery and work towards Indigenous Climate Leadership
Previously funded projects
Since 2017, CERRC has supported 111 projects and provided $217.8 million in funding for capacity building, large capital projects, innovation projects, and bioheat projects. Want to learn more about what type of projects CERRC has funded? Check out the list of currently funded projects.

NRCan’s Indigenous Off-Diesel Initiative supports 14 Indigenous clean energy champions and their communities and has provided over $28 million for community clean energy planning, engagement, and implementing projects. This initiative is delivered in collaboration with the Indigenous Clean Energy Social Enterprise and the Pembina Institute.

Background about diesel use in rural and remote communities

Rural and remote communities that are not connected to the North American electricity grid often use diesel and fossil fuels to generate heat and power. Using fossil fuels for heat and power is expensive and has an impact on the environment, including air quality.

Energy efficiency and conservation measures can help to reduce overall demand for fossil fuels, create warmer, healthier homes and provide savings to communities. Cost savings can enable communities to invest in other community-driven priorities. Local renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, hydro or biomass can replace diesel, reduce environmental and health impacts, and create local economic opportunities.

Find out which energy sources are used by rural and remote communities by visiting the Atlas of Canada - Remote Communities Energy Database.

Definition of rural and remote communities
Rural community is defined as a community with a population of less than 5,000 people and a population density of less than 400 persons per square kilometre and not connected to the North American piped natural gas network.

Remote community refers to a community not currently connected to the North American electrical grid or the piped natural gas network and is a permanent or long-term (5 years or more) settlement with at least 10 dwellings.