Objective
The objective of the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Master’s (CGS M) program is to help develop research skills and assist in the training of highly qualified personnel by supporting students who demonstrate a high standard of achievement in undergraduate and early graduate studies.

Description
The CGS M program provides financial support to high-calibre scholars who are engaged in eligible master’s or, in some cases, doctoral programs in Canada (refer to Eligibility). This support allows these scholars to fully concentrate on their studies in their chosen fields.

The CGS M program supports up to 3,000 students annually in all disciplines and is administered jointly by Canada’s three granting agencies: the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC). The selection process and post-award administration are carried out at the institutional level, under the guidance of the three agencies. Students submit their application to the institution at which they intend to hold their award using the This link will take you to another Web site Research Portal.

Eligibility
To be eligible to apply, you must

be a Canadian citizen, a permanent resident of Canada or a Protected Person under subsection 95(2) of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (Canada) as of the application deadline date
be enrolled in, have applied for or will apply for full-time admission* to an eligible graduate program at the master’s or doctoral level at a Canadian institution with a CGS M allocation
respect the internal deadline to apply for admission for your intended program of study—contact the faculty of graduate studies (or its equivalent) at the selected Canadian institution(s) for more detailed information
have completed, as of December 31 of the year of application
either between 0 and 12 months of full-time studies (or full-time equivalent) in the program for which you are requesting funding,** which may be one of the following:
a master’s program
a doctoral program that you are entering directly from a bachelor’s program without having ever been enrolled in any graduate programs (direct-entry)
a combined master’s-doctoral program
a master’s program that will transition to an eligible doctoral program, either before or after award activation, with no master’s degree conferred (fast-track)
a master’s program for which the degree requirements will be completed before the end of the award, allowing the award to continue into an eligible doctoral program
or between 4 and 12 months of full-time study (or full-time equivalent) in an eligible master’s program for which the degree requirements will be completed before activation of the award, allowing it to be activated during the first 12 months of the subsequent doctoral program for which you are requesting funding
not have held or be currently holding a CGS M scholarship from CIHR, NSERC or SSHRC
have achieved a first-class average**, as determined by the host institution, in each of the last two completed years of study (full-time equivalent)
note that institutions may, at their discretion, accept CGS M applications from individuals who have not obtained a first-class average; contact your proposed host institutions to determine their use of this eligibility criterion
submit a maximum of one scholarship (master’s or doctoral) or fellowship application per academic year to either CIHR, NSERC or SSHRC
nominations to the This link will take you to another Web site Vanier CGS program and applications to the This link will take you to another Web site Banting Postdoctoral Fellowships program do not count toward this limit (other exceptions may apply to CIHR internships)
*Refer to the Tri-agency research training award holder’s guide for details regarding part-time admission.
**All studies credited toward the eligible program will be counted, whether or not they were completed at the degree-granting institution.

Program of study eligibility

An eligible graduate program must include a significant research component that leads to the completion of a thesis, major research project, dissertation, scholarly publication, performance, recital and/or exhibit that is merit/expert-reviewed at the institutional level as a requirement for completion of the program.

Joint programs with a professional degree (for example, MD/PhD, DVM/PhD, JD/MA, JD/PhD, MBA/PhD, MA/MBA) as well as clinically oriented programs of study, including clinical psychology, are eligible if they have a significant autonomous research component, as described above.

Master’s programs that are based only on course work are typically not eligible since they do not include a significant research component, as described above.

Given the specific requirements of certain disciplines, institutions are invited to contact the appropriate agency for guidance on the eligibility of programs of study.

Eligible locations of tenure

Without exception, CGS M awards are tenable only at eligible Canadian institutions.

Field of research and subject matter eligibility

CIHR, NSERC and SSHRC support and promote high-quality research in a wide variety of disciplines and areas, which are divided into broad fields of research (health, natural sciences and engineering, and social sciences and humanities). This includes research that bridges two or more disciplines or that requires the skills of several disciplines.

You must ensure that you are submitting your application to an institution that has an allocation for the field of research you intend to pursue. Applications deemed by a host institution to have been labelled incorrectly will be re-labelled according to the agency’s research subject matter guidelines (refer to This link will take you to another Web site Selecting the appropriate federal granting agency). You should contact the faculty of graduate studies (or its equivalent) at the institution where you intend to hold the award for further guidance on subject matter eligibility.

Equity, diversity and inclusion
The Tri-agency is acting on the evidence that achieving a more equitable, diverse and inclusive Canadian research enterprise is essential to creating the excellent, innovative and impactful research necessary to advance knowledge and understanding, and to respond to local, national and global challenges. This principle informs the commitments described in the Tri-agency statement on equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI).

Application procedures
To apply to the CGS M program, you must complete and submit an application to up to three institutions using the Research Portal. You should consult the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Master’s program: Instructions for completing an application.

Allocations

Eligible Canadian institutions are assigned a separate allocation of awards to offer from each agency. Institutions must respect the agency-specific allocation. Refer to the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Master’s award allocations page for a list of allocations by institution and by agency.

Deadlines
Application deadline: December 1, before 8:00 p.m. (ET). Complete applications must be submitted by the deadline using the This link will take you to another Web site Research Portal. If the deadline falls on a weekend, applications must be submitted by the following business day before 8:00 p.m. (ET).
As the application deadline approaches, delays may occur due to a high volume of users on the Research Portal, which may prevent the timely submission of your application. Requests to submit late applications will not be accepted.
Results deadline: Competition results will be available in the This link will take you to another Web site Research Portal as of April 1.
Selection process
The faculty of graduate studies (or its equivalent) at each institution is responsible for coordinating the selection process for the CGS M applications. Refer to Information and instructions for scholarships liaison officers for managing the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Master’s program for more information on the selection process.

Selection criteria
The merit review of CGS M applications will be carried out by institutions with an allocation and will be based on the following evaluation criteria:

Criteria	Description	Weight
Academic excellence	As demonstrated by past academic results, transcripts, awards and distinctions

Indicators of academic excellence:
academic record
scholarships and awards held
duration of previous studies
type of program and courses pursued
course load
relative standing (if available)
50%
Research potential	As demonstrated by your research history, your interest in discovery, the proposed research, its potential contribution to the advancement of knowledge in the field and any anticipated outcomes

Indicators of research potential:
quality and originality of contributions to research and development
relevance of work experience and academic training to field of proposed research
significance, feasibility and merit of proposed research
judgment and ability to think critically
ability to apply skills and knowledge
initiative and autonomy
research experience and achievements relative to expectations of someone with your academic experience
30%
Personal characteristics and interpersonal skills	As demonstrated by the applicant’s past professional and relevant extracurricular interactions and collaborations

Indicators of personal characteristics and interpersonal skills:
work experience
leadership experience
project management including organizing conferences and meetings
ability or potential to communicate theoretical, technical or scientific concepts clearly and logically in written and oral formats
involvement in academic life
volunteerism/community outreach
20%
Notification of results
Offers of awards will be available in the This link will take you to another Web site Research Portal as of April 1. Alternate offers may be made up until January 31 of the next calendar year. It is your responsibility to regularly check the Research Portal between April 1 and January 31 for results of the competition. Refer to the instructions for completing an application for more information on the notification of results.

Conditions of the award
Location of tenure

Awards must be held at the institution where the offer of award originates. Awards are not intended to be portable; however, at the discretion of the host institution and with agency approval, exceptions may be made in certain circumstances (for example, parental reasons, medical reasons, family-related responsibilities, or pandemic).

Policies and guidelines

You must comply with the policies and guidelines set out in the Tri-agency research training award holder’s guide and in any other documents related to scholarship applications and awards. In addition, the award is subject to final approval by the relevant agency before funds can be released.

You cannot be concurrently holding another CIHR, NSERC or SSHRC award, with the exception of the Michael Smith Foreign Studies supplement (MSFSS).

The agencies reserve the right to interpret and enforce the policies and guidelines for their funding opportunities set out in their published materials.

Use and disclosure of information
All personal information collected as part of this program is used by the agencies and by the relevant officials in the eligible research institutions to review applications and to administer and monitor awards. It may also be used to determine the most appropriate funding jurisdiction, or to monitor overlap in federal support. Details on the use and disclosure of this information by the agencies are described by CIHR in This link will take you to another Web site Info source – Sources of federal government and employee information, by NSERC in the Use and disclosure of personal information provided to NSERC, by SSHRC in the This link will take you to another Web site Collection, use and disclosure of personal information and in the relevant program literature.

Each agency may publish the names and other limited award information of award holders on their websites in accordance with the agencies’ policies on disclosure under the Access to Information Act and their Privacy Act policies and guidelines related to the collection, use, retention and disposal of personal information. For more information, consult the This link will take you to another Web site Access to Information Act, and the This link will take you to another Web site Privacy Act. In addition, for SSHRC-funded scholarships, SSHRC will provide to the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Société et culture (FRQSC) the same information as above in advance of the public announcement of awards, for its administrative purposes and in accordance with the memorandum of understanding between SSHRC and FRQSC.