Description
The NSERC Postgraduate Scholarships – Doctoral (PGS D) program provides financial support to high-calibre scholars who are engaged in an eligible doctoral program (see Eligibility criteria for students and fellows) in the natural sciences or engineering. This support allows these scholars to fully concentrate on their studies and seek out the best research mentors in their chosen fields.

Applications to the PGS D program will automatically be considered for the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Doctoral (CGS D) award. If your application is one of the top-ranked applications, you will be offered a CGS D; if your application is among the next tier of meritorious applications, you will be offered a PGS D; and if your application is one of the lower-ranked applications, you will not be offered an award.

The majority of information about the PGS D program is contained within the tri-agency Canada Graduate Scholarships – Doctoral program description, including important information about

eligibility
application procedures
Indigenous applicants
deadlines
notification of results
conditions of the award
The following information is specific to the NSERC PGS D program and the doctoral award selection process at NSERC.

Note: If you entered your doctoral program at a Canadian institution directly from your bachelor’s degree (that is, you were never registered in a graduate-level program) and have completed between 0 and 12 months of studies in the doctoral program, you may be eligible to apply for a Canada Graduate Scholarship – Master’s (CGS M) or for a PGS D. Applying for a CGS M, if you are eligible, will maximize your potential period of funding. You are responsible for choosing the type of award for which you apply.

Eligibility
Refer to the Canada Graduate Scholarships – Doctoral program description for information on eligibility. The following pertains specifically to the PGS D award.

Institution

You may take up your PGS D at any eligible Canadian institution. You may also take it up at any eligible foreign institution, provided you have received a previous degree from a Canadian institution.

If you are offered a CGS D but decide to take your award to an eligible foreign institution, and are eligible to do so, you must decline the CGS D to be offered a PGS D award in its place.

Note: If you are a permanent resident of Canada and will be taking up your award outside of Canada, you should contact the relevant Canadian immigration authorities to determine how doing so may affect your Canadian residency status.

Subject matter

To be considered eligible for the PGS D program, your proposed research must clearly lie within the natural sciences and engineering (NSE), rather than the health sciences. If you applied to NSERC, and your proposed research falls outside of the agency’s mandate, and you are not offered a CGS D award, your application may be deemed ineligible. Refer to NSERC’s Eligibility criteria for students and fellows for additional information.

Indigenous applicants

Refer to the CGS D program description for information on considerations given to self-identified Indigenous applicants to the doctoral funding programs.

Application procedures
Refer to the CGS D program description for information on applying to the PGS D program.

Deadlines
Refer to the CGS D program description for information on institutional and agency deadlines.

Review procedures and selection criteria
Institutional and NSERC review
Selection committees evaluate each application (whether submitted directly to the agencies or via the institutional review processes) within one of the following broad discipline categories that correspond to the NSERC scholarships and fellowships selection committees:

cellular and molecular biology
chemical, biomedical and materials science engineering
chemistry
civil and industrial engineering
computing sciences
electrical engineering
evolution and ecology
geosciences
mathematical sciences
mechanical engineering
physics and astronomy
plant and animal biology
psychology
The research subject code (see List of research subject codes for scholarships and fellowships) entered in the application will determine the selection committee in which the application will be evaluated. NSERC may assign the application to a different committee if it determines that the subject matter is more appropriate for another committee. The selection committees recommend scholarships for the applications they consider to be most meritorious, according to the selection criteria described in the CGS D program description and within the limit of available awards. Note that NSERC may promote equity and diversity by giving award priority to meritorious applications from those who self-identify as Indigenous and/or as a woman, if sufficient funds become available.

NSERC expects selection committee members to consistently guard against the possibility of unconscious bias influencing the decision-making process, whether these biases are based on a school of thought, fundamental versus applied research, certain sub-disciplines, areas of research or approaches (including emerging ones), size or reputation of an institution, age, gender and/or other personal factors.

NSERC is acting on the evidence that achieving a more equitable, diverse and inclusive Canadian research enterprise is essential to creating the excellent, innovative and impactful research necessary to advance knowledge and understanding, and to respond to local, national and global challenges. This principle informs the commitments described in the Tri-agency statement on equity, diversity and inclusion.

For more information consult the document Equity, diversity and inclusion considerations at each stage of the research process.

In preparing your application, you should consult the Selection criteria and indicators section and appendix A of the Selection committee guide for Postgraduate Scholarships – Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellowships programs, which provides useful information on what selection committee members look for in assessing applications. You should also read the Instructions for completing an application – form 201.

Notification of results
Refer to the CGS D program description for information on the notification of results.

Conditions of the award
Refer to the Tri-agency research training award holder’s guide for policies and requirements about holding the award, such as acceptance, start date, deferment, paid parental leave, holding the award on a part-time basis, etc.