Objective
The objective of the Ingenium-NSERC STEAM Horizon awards is to promote the fields of science, technology, engineering, art and design,* and mathematics (STEAM) to the next generation of scientists and engineers. The award will be given to individuals who clearly demonstrate inspiring achievements in these fields by applying their passion to have an impact on their community. Winners can approach their passion for technology and science from any angle, whether from an art and design perspective or as a research project, public outreach or development of a new idea or product. Winners of the Ingenium-NSERC STEAM Horizon awards will show strong potential to become ambassadors for STEAM fields for younger generations.

The main award sponsors are Ingenium Foundation, NSERC and Indspire.

*Art and design fields will only be accepted if they are integrated in science and technology. 

Eligibility
To be eligible to apply, you must

be a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada by the application deadline
be 16 to 18 years of age by the application deadline
have been recognized for accomplishments in a formal capacity (for example, selected as a participant or winner of a science fair, patent application, conference presentation) or less formal capacity (for example, founding a coding club, developing a course for kids, creating an interactive art installation, doing volunteer work or community outreach)
have obtained, over the previous year of study, an academic average of 80% or higher
be preparing to enroll in the fall of 2022 in your first year of post-secondary education (university, college or CÉGEP) in a STEAM field at a Canadian institution
The award sponsors welcome those who reflect the diverse nature of our country. All who qualify are encouraged to apply, including women, members of visible minorities, Indigenous persons and persons with disabilities. Two awards will be granted to eligible Indigenous students.

Application procedures
To be considered for this award, you must submit the following documents before 8:00 p.m. (ET) on the deadline date:

application and terms and conditions for applying form*
letters of support (two)*
transcripts
video clip (illustrates achievements and outreach capabilities, demonstrates oral communication skills—two minutes maximum)
Applications must be submitted electronically using the This link will take you to another Web site Secure submissions for NSERC’s scholarships and fellowships and Chairs for Women in Science and Engineering programs. Documents must be submitted in portable document format (PDF).

At the time of submission, you must complete a questionnaire (through the secure submissions site) that covers age, gender, Indigenous identity and/or identity as a member of a visible minority group and/or as a person with a disability.
For the ID field, please enter your last name.
The program collects self-identification data to monitor levels of diversity, policies and processes for potential systemic barriers. Although completion of the questionnaire is mandatory, each question includes the option I prefer not to answer. Self-identification data are not seen or used by NSERC reviewers.
*You must use the forms provided on this website. If you make changes to the documents or submit a document in free form, it will not be considered in your application. An incomplete application will not be considered for the Ingenium-NSERC STEAM Horizon awards.

Review procedures and selection criteria
An NSERC committee will review the applications and make recommendations to a selection board based on the following weighted selection criteria:

academic excellence (10%)
communication skills (30%)
passion for solving real-world problems within your community (30%)
potential to become ambassadors to younger generations for STEAM fields (30%)
Notification of results
NSERC will inform you of the outcome of your application in April, after it has completed its selection process.

NSERC and Ingenium may publish the recipient’s name (and other basic award information) on their websites. For more information, read the Access to Information Act and the Privacy Act (ATIP).

Promotion purposes for recipient
The award winners will be invited to attend the annual awards ceremony for the Ingenium-NSERC STEAM Horizon awards. The ceremony will be held in Ottawa (or may be held remotely) in May. Award winners’ travel fees, if applicable, will be covered by Ingenium.

Ingenium and NSERC may, from time to time, wish to make public (for the purposes of publicity and promotion) selected information regarding award recipients, such as

the recipient’s name
pictures of the recipient, taken during events
the institution where they plan to take up their award
the undergraduate program the recipient will be attending in the fall
notable achievements for which the recipient was recognized
Furthermore, for the duration of their award (one year), it is expected that award winners make themselves available for potential media interviews as arranged by either one or both organizations regarding their awards and accomplishments and that they assist in promotional activities for the program. Award winners may also be invited to attend other events during this period.