In 2018, NSERC launched a five-year pilot initiative to support the promotion of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) to Canadian youth as part of helping foster a science and engineering culture in Canada.

NSERC is acting on the evidence that equity, diversity and inclusion strengthen the scientific and engineering communities and the quality, social relevance and impact of research. The purpose of the NSERC Student Ambassadors grant is to encourage post-secondary students and fellows, as mentors and role models, to share their science and engineering experience with youth from under-represented groups in STEM.

Eligibility
To be eligible, at the time you submit your application you must

be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada
be registered (part-time or full-time) in a Canadian university, polytechnic, college, or Cégep in the natural sciences and engineering (NSE) or have been registered last term and plan to return next term to one of those institutions for studies in the NSE or be a postdoctoral fellow in the NSE at a Canadian university
be at least 16 years of age
hold a valid bank account with an institution legally entitled to operate in Canada
Only one application can be considered in support of a single outreach event.

Employees of NSERC and members of their immediate families are ineligible to apply.

Value of grant
The value of the grant is $1,000. You may hold only one NSERC Student Ambassador grant per fiscal year (April 1–March 31).

Requirements
The outreach activity must

promote natural sciences or engineering to youth in elementary school or high school (including the equivalent first year of college in Quebec)
focus on under-represented groups in STEM (e.g., girls, Indigenous youth, youth in rural and remote areas, or other groups based on gender, ethnicity, language, geographical location or economic status)
be organized independently by you (although you may use resources or materials developed by other organizations, and you may involve volunteers to help with the activity)
The results of the outreach activity must be shared publicly (e.g., online, social media) and reported back to NSERC by email at ambassadors@nserc-crsng.gc.ca.

Eligible expenses
The grant will cover the following costs associated with the proposed science and engineering promotion outreach activity:

travel (air, rail, car rental, taxi, etc.) to the venue
accommodation (hotel, etc.)
meals
material and supplies needed for the outreach activity
hosting the event (refreshments, renting the facility, renting audio-visual equipment, short-term video conferencing subscriptions, etc.)
promoting the event (photocopying, social media advertising, etc.)
Note: The material and supplies category is intended for the purchase of consumables (i.e., items that would be used up or consumed during the activity). Purchase of equipment is not covered.

Application procedures
Applicants must submit a completed NSERC Student Ambassadors application form electronically via the This link will take you to another Web site Secure Submissions Site for NSERC’s Innovative Collaborations and Science Promotion Programs. The application must be submitted as a single document in Portable Document Format (PDF).

Application deadline
There are no fixed deadlines for this grant. Applications must be submitted between two and six months before the start of a proposed outreach activity to ensure sufficient time for processing and payment.

Notification of results
NSERC will notify you of the result within one month of receiving the application, at the email address given on the application. Grants will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis until all available funds for the fiscal year (April 1–March 31) have been spent.

For more information, or any questions about the initiative or the application process, contact us at ambassadors@nserc-crsng.gc.ca and indicate “NSERC Student Ambassadors” in the subject line.