Objective
The This link will take you to another Web site Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) has established the JSPS Postdoctoral Fellowships for Foreign Researchers. A limited number of promising early career researchers are given the opportunity, through this fellowship, to conduct research in Japanese universities and in designated research institutions and laboratories. NSERC is responsible for recommending Canadian nominees for JSPS Postdoctoral Fellowships.

NSERC is acting on the evidence that achieving a more equitable, diverse and inclusive Canadian research enterprise is essential to creating the excellent, innovative and impactful research necessary to advance knowledge and understanding, and to respond to local, national and global challenges. This principle informs the commitments described in the Tri-agency statement on equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI).

Eligibility
To be considered eligible for support, as of the application deadline date, you must

be a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada
not have Japanese nationality or be a permanent resident of Japan
hold or expect to hold a doctorate degree in one of the fields of research that NSERC supports prior to the proposed start date of the postdoctoral fellowship
not hold, or have held, any other JSPS Postdoctoral fellowship
In addition:

You must have completed all requirements of your doctoral degree no more than six years before the start date of the fellowship.
Exceptions to the doctoral degree completion eligibility period:

In the event of parental leave, the total amount of time taken for this type of leave will be subtracted from the time elapsed since the completion of your doctoral degree requirements. Supporting documentation will be required.
Value and duration
The This link will take you to another Web site JSPS website provides additional information on the value and duration of the awards.

Application procedures
If you are interested and eligible to apply for this fellowship, contact schol@nserc-crsng.gc.ca to obtain the application form and instructions.

Applications must be submitted electronically using the This link will take you to another Web site Secure Submissions for NSERC’s Scholarships and Fellowships site. Documents must be submitted in portable document format (PDF) as a single document.

Deadline
The deadline to apply is February 1.

Review procedures
NSERC reviews and forwards recommended applications to JSPS. JSPS reviews and selects recipients for the award.

Notification of results
JSPS will notify you directly of the results of your application by email within three months of the application deadline. If your contact information changes after submitting an application, you must inform NSERC by sending an email to schol@nserc-crsng.gc.ca.

Post-activity deliverables
Within one month of completing their research study period in Japan, fellows must submit a one-page activity report of their experience abroad to NSERC by emailing schol@nserc-crsng.gc.ca.

For more information
If you would like to share this opportunity, download NSERC’s promotional poster and distribute it to all interested candidates.

For more information about these fellowships, contact schol@nserc-crsng.gc.ca.

You may also refer to the This link will take you to another Web site Japan Society for the Promotion of Science website for further details on the JSPS Postdoctoral Fellowships for Foreign Researchers.