The Northern Scientific Training Program application period for 2022-2023 is now closed.

Funding Distribution Results 2018-2019
Polar Knowledge Canada is pleased to share the funding results of its Northern Scientific Training Program for 2018-2019. See the details

Application procedures
Applications for the Northern Scientific Training Program funding must be made by the Chairperson of a Northern Studies Committee at a Canadian university or the equivalent. The committee must be officially recognized by the President of the university. Applications from individuals are not accepted. If a studenth's university does not have a recognized Northern Studies Committee, the candidate may apply through a participating university.

Supported fields of research
The program funds projects on northern topics from all disciplines and in multi-disciplinary fields.

Geographical focus
The Northern Scientific Training Program supports projects that lie north of the southern limit of the discontinuous permafrost zone (see map at: http://arcg.is/1vGHyr); and the other seven circumpolar countries (Finland, Greenland (Denmark), Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden, and the United States (Alaska).

Use of Northern Scientific Training Program funds
The program’s funds are restricted. They are a supplement meant to offset the additional costs of northern research (e.g. transportation and living costs). The Northern Scientific Training Program is not intended to be a source of primary support for students pursuing northern research.

Selection process
Every year, an inter-governmental committee reviews the applications and allocates funding on the following basis:

the extent to which the application fits within program guidelines
the evaluation of past performance and future research
the training component of the application, and
the contribution to the development of northern specialists at the university.
This committee is also responsible for ensuring the effective use of funds allocated in the previous year.

Eligibility
Be enrolled in a degree program at a Canadian university.
NSTP will provide one year of funding for thesis-based research at the undergraduate level, up to two years of funding for thesis-based research at the Masters level and up to three years of funding for thesis-based research at the doctoral level.
Students supported by training funds must be Canadian citizens or permanent residents.
Summer and winter projects are eligible.
Post-doctoral studies are not supported.
Deadline
The deadline for endorsed applications to the Northern Scientific Training Program is December 1 of each year. Students should be informed of the earlier deadlines set within each university by their respective Northern Studies Committee. The Northern Scientific Training Program application period for 2022-2023 is now closed.

Annual cycle
The program is based on a fiscal year commencing April 1 and ending March 31.