 ERA-NET

Numerous national funding institutions from Europe and beyond regularly participate in the international calls of the ERA-NETs. The European Union also contributes funding within the framework of the ERA-NET Cofund initiative. Innosuisse gives Swiss companies and research institutions access to these international calls.

Are you dependent on an international partnership with a research institution or an industry partner when it comes to implementing your innovation? Then we are the right people to help you. Innosuisse takes part in selected ERA-NETs with its transnational calls and gives you the opportunity to participate and gain access to funding.

ERA-NETs: European Research Area networks

Within the framework of an ERA-NET, calls for transnational research and innovation projects agreed upon by member states are launched in a variety of subject areas. The project partners are financed based on the national funding criteria of each member state and region. In each case, one of the participating funding organisations from an EU member state or an associated state (e.g. Switzerland) is responsible for coordinating an ERA-NET.

Who can submit an application?

If Innosuisse is involved in an ERA-NET, Swiss companies and research institutions can submit applications. The same criteria applies as for funding applications for standard Innosuisse innovation projects. Any other criteria is provided in the relevant call document.
ERA-NETs with Innosuisse participation
M-ERA.NET

M-ERA.NET is a European network for coordinating national and regional research programmes in the field of materials research and innovation. The aim is to support transnational partnerships of research institutions and companies in all fields of knowledge and application of modern materials science. International cooperation with partners outside of Europe is also a stated aim.

https://m-era.net/
ERA CoBioTech

ERA-NET Cofund on biotechnologies, ERA CoBioTech, is being supported as part of the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 funding programme to replace the three ERA-NETs ERA-IB-2 (ERA-NET for industrial biotechnology), ERASysAPP (ERA-NET for applied systems biology) and ERASynBio (ERA-NET for synthetic biology). Between 2005-2016 there have been 12 calls whereby 110 projects have been supported with fundings of 189 Mio €. ERA CoBioTech brings together partners from 18 European countries as well as Argentina and Israel. The aim of ERA CoBioTech is:

    To expand on synergies in the field of biotechnological research funding in Europe
    To intensify knowledge and technology transfer
    To emphasise the benefits and opportunities created for society by the bioeconomy
    To strengthen Europe’s global position in the field of modern biotechnologies
    In a joint effort between the ERA CoBioTech partners and the European scientific community, ERA CoBioTech has developed a vision for the future of biotechnology in Europe (“Strategic Agenda”).

There are currently no calls running but a third call is in the preparation phase.
ERA-NET ForestValue

ERA-NET Cofund on innovative forest-based bioeconomy, ForestValue, began on 1 October 2017 with a duration of five years. Further actions are planned in addition to a joint call. The funding initiative consists of 30 partner organisations from 14 European countries as well as countries like Tunesia, Egypt, Turkey and Argentina and is being supported by the EU Horizon 2020 funding programme.

ForestValue represents a merger between the three forest-based networks WoodWisdomNet+, Foresterra and Sumforest. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen innovation in the forestry sector in Europe.

Between 2004-2017 the ERA-NET organised 6 calls whereby 73 projects with fundings of 97 Mio. € could be supported.

There are currently no calls running.
ERA-NET Smart Energy System SES

The European Union’s aim is to reduce dependency on fossil fuels and lead the way when it comes to renewable energy. The goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030. ERA-NET Smart Energy System SES supports this ambition and finances transnational research and innovation projects. Based on the European Union’s Strategic Energy Technology Plan, the activities of ERA-NET SES aim to increase the resilience and reliability of the energy system (SET-plan action 4). This funding initiative consists of 30 partners from 24 countries.

The main topics of the first call (2018) was about integrated, regional energy systems. A second call is currently in preparation and will deal with energy storage as the main topic. 
